<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1404.47" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet4.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%"><b><a id="doc21"></a>CHAPTER 3</b></h2>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%; min-height: 19.0px"><br /></h2>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc22"></a>Short Bouts</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">I did pretty well until November the twenty ninth of that same year, 1982. I had been sitting in the company’s van trying not to alarm anyone as we drove home from work. Getting pain medication quickly was my highest priority. The doctor that referred me to Doc gave me a script for Tylenol with codeine. I took one while waiting for my credit card to be processed. I was being beaten mercilessly and beginning to show it. I called Doc; he instructed me to come to the hospital emergency room.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse had undoubtedly filled Doc in on the pain level because he slid around the corner as he ran to me. Squeezed tightly into a fetal position, I saw a blurry Doc through my tears. Doc was direct when he said, “Give him 100/25 Demerol/Phenergan.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse said, “He’s had oral codeine.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With firmness, Doc said, “Give it to him. He needs it.” “It’s coming in waves, Doc.” The pain was so severe that the shot only made it tolerable, not dead. I said, “Here comes another one.” With each wave of pain, I winced and Doc listened with his stethoscope. He ordered the placement of an IV, NPO (no intake by mouth), and use of Demerol/Phenergan again.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 11/29/82 — 12/5/82</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Diagnosis: pancreatitis.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">A couple of weeks after I returned to work, I sought refuge in a toilet stall. I was doubled over leaning against the wall. The pain was too sharp and in the wrong place for pancreatitis. Someone walked in. I asked him to get a nurse from the company’s medical department. I loosened my belt and dropped my pants to my ankles. Within minutes a nurse arrived. She was accompanied by as many as eight of my co—workers. She kindly helped me into my pants and a wheel chair. I arrived by ambulance for another short stay in the hospital. When your intestines are handled during surgery, they lose some of their lubricity. A loop of intestine will twist tight to shut off the flow of fluids and gas.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 12/15/82 — 12/19/82</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Diagnosis: partial bowel obstruction.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I lived relatively pain free for three years after this last stay. In September of 1984, I married. Life was good in many ways. Professionally, I was earning more and traveling enough for it to be enjoyed rather than dreaded. I also began taking MBA courses at the University of Houston. Marriage was good, with thoughts of children. On June 5, 1985 this serene life was interrupted, abruptly with force. Soon after admission, I began to hiccough. It didn’t stop while I was sleeping, eating, drinking, or walking for three days. Mom and Dad made the trip for this stay. Doc ordered: Electrolytes by IV, Demerol/Phenergan, progress foods as tolerated.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 6/5/85 — 6/16/85</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Final Diagnosis: pancreatitis, hiccoughs, musculoskeletal back pain, elevated SGOT and LDH due to intramuscular pain medicine injections, gastroesophageal reflux.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc23"></a>It's Chronic</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">This was the worst news there was. It meant that the pancreas had digested itself to the point where scar tissue on nerves was causing as much pain as the actively digested areas. It means your not going to stop hurting until the pancreas is removed. Even after removal, scar tissue on nerves in the bed of the pancreas could continue to send pain signals to the brain. Chronic, this was a tough one.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Every time before, I left the hospital pain free. This time, I would feel no better my first night after discharge. Mom and Dad were on hand when Doc discussed the final diagnosis. “Billy is going to have to live with daily pain now.” I will provide him with Talwin that he can take every three hours for pain. I will also give him digestive enzymes to reduce the production of enzymes by the pancreas. This intern will reduce pain created from nerves that operate the pancreas to make digestive enzymes. These nerves are encased in scar tissue, which causes pain when the brain sends signals for them to produce digestive enzymes.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Dad said, “Can you give him a stronger pain medicine in case he has a bad attack?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc replied, “I would rather not. If he can’t make it on the Talwin, I can prescribe stronger pain medicine on a limited basis.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “I don’t need to start taking stronger medicine on a routine basis. Not now.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 7/9/85 — 8/10/85</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Final Diagnosis: chronic pancreatitis.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc24"></a>Preparing for the Slab</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Work had become more and more difficult. Spending nights in pain and working during the day was causing weight loss.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The pain had mostly just nagged until tonight. Muscles hardened as I squirmed. It’s time. Doc is called. I take a Talwin. Admission is not fun.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After taking down all of my information, the same information given to them six months earlier, I get my wheelchair ride to pain medicine. To relax and sleep without waking up in two hours because the Talwin has been metabolized. The nurses were pretty good at reading a patient’s pain level. Only the essentials were done before giving me the wanted sting of the needle. I began to breath without tight chest muscles. I drifted quietly into darkness, a pale, thin, emaciated young man of thirty, with one hundred and twenty eight pounds clinging to my five foot ten and a half inch frame.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After several weeks of pain with little easing, surgery began to be considered. Prior to surgery every test known to man had to be performed to eliminate all of the possible illnesses that could cause the kind of pain I was having. I was allowed to rest one day before the tests began. Tests really are awful to begin with; but when you have pancreatitis, they’re really bad. Everything put into your intestines triggers the pancreas to produce enzymes, which causes pain to increase.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8"><i>Abdominal series x—ray</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Abdominal ultrasound x—rays</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>CAT scan abdominal x—rays</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Chest AP x-ray</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Gastroscopy</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Urine analysis</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Blood analysis</i></li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In the end, surgery was chosen as the best action to take. Cutter kept it simple and to the point. “If the duct openings can be established again for drainage, then I will do so. If not, then I will remove the tail of the pancreas and hook it up to your intestine by a drainage tube made from intestinal tissue.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc25"></a>Surgery</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">I was the first one on the list at 7:30 a.m. I took a pain shot at 4:30; consequently, the pre-op shot was not given at 7:00. I felt that I could make it until I was put to sleep. I gave the folks the usual smile and thumbs up.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">At 7:10, Cutter shook my foot and asked if I felt alright. “No. I’m having pain because the shot I had at 4:30 has worn off.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “We’ll get you right in.” I entered the room as he gave orders to the anesthesiologist to get me under. “He’s in pain. Prep him after he is put to sleep.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">A nurse leaned over me and said, “I’m going to put you to sleep. Relax; you will be asleep soon.” Nurses were shaving my chest for the placement of the monitors. I could hear that loud train coming. Jimi Hendrix. Bam!</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I awoke to severe pain in my front midsection. An oxygen mask is smothering me. I can’t talk. I point to my stomach.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc asks, “Pain?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I nod in agreement. Doc said, “We’re getting your pain medicine right now.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I kept trying to pull the mask off. Doc tried his best to soothe as he said, “The surgery took four and a half hours. It took a hour and a half just to get through the scar tissue; so, the work could be done. You did great.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Mom told me later that my wife burst into tears when she saw me writhing in pain on the stretcher in route to intensive care. I have no recollection of even seeing them.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc26"></a>Intensive Care</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">“Mr. Scherer, I’m your nurse. Do you know where you are?” Yes was indicated by nods. “Mr. Scherer you have already pushed the pain medicine button. You need to wait a few minutes.”</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I firmly said “Get some tape. I want to tie it down.” Trying again to somehow gain control; I tried to listen to music. I ripped the headphones off as soon as I heard the first notes. After several hours of screaming and hyperventilating, I convinced the nurse to call Doc. Phenergan was ordered and administered. The shot immediately put me at ease.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I now sat back and waited with some small degree of patience for the first flicker of the ready sign on my very own Demerol pump. I was still in pain; but now my brain allowed for some pondering of the situation.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I hadn’t slept yet when Doc arrived the next morning. He and the nurse that I had been screaming at, came in the room. Pleading I said “I apologize for everything I remember doing and everything I don’t remember. Just thinking about the pain that I had that first twelve hours makes me cry.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc smiled and said, “You don’t have to think about it anymore.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was still awake at the first shift change, twelve hours in ICU. That first bath feels good, as long as you keep providing more morphine. The worst thing about intensive care is a close contest between the coughing and breathing exercises and the elastic stockings you have to wear to prevent fluid accumulation in your legs from lack of exercise. Coughing when you have internal and external stitches is at the very least difficult and painful. The nursing aids who witness your breathing exercises are stern when it comes to compliance with the regime. They also enjoyed the usual back and forth about having to do the treatment. He said, “Mr. Scherer you don’t want to die from fluid in your lungs do you.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I replied, “Is it worst than pancreas surgery?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Demerol dreams are a part of daily life in ICU. One time I was flying a chair at jet fighter speed. There was a bubble to reduce wind effects on my face. The scene was the great walls of the Colorado River in the southwest. It was fun. Suddenly there was a problem with the engine. I had to ditch it; not an easy task. I came in too short and went through a forest piling up large pine trees with the front of the chair. Snow was flying high and blinding me. I suddenly came to a stop. I’m awake now.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was a couple of pints low on blood after all the cutting. One day the nutrition specialist came in to see blood that had been sprayed across me and the bed. She said, “Tell me it is not as bad as it looks.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I answered, “No. It happened when they were hooking me up to the blood supply.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She asked, “But you’re okay otherwise?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc27"></a>Roomates</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">I popped the Demerol button whenever the wheelchair hit a bump on the way to my new hospital room. I was in a single room for a while. There were a fair number of empty beds.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My first roommate, was an elderly gentleman. He worked as a mister fixit at a local university. He couldn’t wait to leave. When the nurse came to draw blood, he would say, “I’m not giving you any more blood. You guys are selling that stuff out the back of the hospital.” They got the blood samples. Vampires, as I jokingly called them, always do.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He described a trip that he and his wife made to Africa to see the big cats. At the outfitter’s store he walked up to a monkey in a cage. Quickly, the monkey reached through the cage and grabbed an ear with each hand and screamed as loud as he could. When his doctor came by to discharge him, he was laying underneath blankets fully dressed in his street clothes. He had hardly eaten any food at breakfast. His doctor asked, “Have you been eating all of your food?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Oh yea. Oh yes sir. I’m ready to go.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Well okay. Make an appointment for two weeks.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It was around eleven at night when my new roommate entered the room. A large guy with short hair, dazed and medicated. He passed out at home; and hit his head on the coffee table. He was originally injured when hit with a pipe that knocked him off of a drilling platform in Alaska. There was no railing to keep him from falling about two stories off of the platform and onto ice: cracked skull, metal plate, major headache. He was getting the max of Demerol and Phenergan. He preferred to get it in the arm. “That’s the way we got ’em in Nam. I was tortured in the war.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After giving him his pain medicine, his nurse left with a smile saying, “Well, I hope that helps. Let me know, if I can get anything else.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After about an hour, he begins to yell for a nurse. “I need pain medicine.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Standing at the door, she said, “I have given you all that you can have for another two hours.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“You need to call my doctor. Get him up here and let him decide what’s needed.” The nurse replied, “We’re expecting to hear from your doctor. I’ll discuss it with him.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He needed more; wow, substantial tolerance. He stayed awake for most of the night, except for cat naps right after being medicated. His folks showed up the next morning. Turns out, he’s going to buy them a house when he gets his legal settlement from his employer. His lawyer sent a large bird of paradise flower arrangement. With slurred speech, he looked and sounded like a drunk. He continued on with a continuous need for pain medicine. With a crack in his skull, I felt for him. His parents were present when his doctor walked into the room. After kindly introducing himself to his parents, his focus turned to the roommate.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The doctor said, “You are taking entirely too much pain medicine.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The patient replied, “I need it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Which prompted the doctor to say, “You don’t need the amount you are taking.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The patient responded, “Are you calling me a drug addict? Because if you are then, there’s the door. I have a crack in my skull that hurts.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The doctor replied, “You’re playing games with me.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The roommate answered rather forcefully, “I am not playing a game here.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The doctor said, “I’ll tell your other doctor about my concerns.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The roommate unloaded. “You need to be concerned about getting yourself out of this room.” After the doctor left, he said to his parents, “How dare him call me a drug addict.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">His dad said, “Well, son I think there is some truth to the idea that you are taking too much. Your mother and I feel that way.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Within the hour, his other doctor walked in telling his parents to “Please keep your seats.” Looking directly at the patient, he said, “I hear you are not doing well.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In response the patient said, “It is really bad. Besides that the other doctor thinks I’m a drug addict.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I think he is concerned for your health; but he doesn’t have a crack in his skull. Try to cut down if you can, but don’t be in pain. Use the medicine for a day or two until we can be sure you are not going to fall again. Try to get up and walk around as much as you can.” As his doctor was leaving he said to his parents, “It was nice meeting you.” When he took the doctor up on walking, he found it difficult to find his room when he returned. What a trip. I don’t know if he ever got his settlement. I do know he will be in pain for the rest of his life.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Another roommate had a split personality; or you could say two fronts. To single women he was gooey sweet, eyes fluttering, high pitched “How are youuuu.” To his soon to be divorced wife, he was “You bitch shut up while I tell you what’s what.” He hit on an attractive vampire. He didn’t fool her.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc28"></a>Odd Happenings</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">One day my head became rigidly fixed with my eyes pointed directly over my shoulder. My neck muscles were hard, with severe cramps. I said to myself, “I have to control my mind to get my head turned back. Got to get it back.”</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse that answered my mother’s desperate call, slid into the room. She fixed her eyes on mine; then vanished. A brief moment later the room was filled with Cutter, his nurse, and three nurses from the floor.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Cutter said, “He is having a reaction to one of his meds.” He and a nurse went to get medicine.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I just kept thinking, “I have to control my mind.” A nurse entered the room with a syringe. I didn’t ask what the medicine was. Whatever it was worked. I slept for several hours.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It was time to go to the catacombs of x-ray land again for that good old time favorite CAT scan. As the transporter pushed me down the hall, two folding doors flew open. A young girl, maybe nine or ten was laying on a stretcher. She had pins protruding through the skin of her leg along a line from knee to foot. Her mother tried to console her. How could anyone be anything other than terrified with the pain she was living with.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As soon as I made eye contact with the girl, she was rushed to another room. That night Doc reported the CAT scan results. “It’s still swollen. We will take another look next week.” In those few words, Doc extended the stay one more week. I’ll get to enjoy those metallic iodine cocktails next week, and the week after …. and ….. after.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My subclavian IV had been in for a long time. It was removed to eliminate a possible source of infection. When they put the new one in, a group of nurse trainees hovered around my bed to watch the procedure. One of them said, “I bet you never had so many good looking women hovering over you in bed before have you?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “Well, yes I have.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My mother enjoyed telling that story.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc29"></a>Discharged</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">April 15, 1986.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Finally after fifty three days, I walked out a free man. I had been in the hospital for the entire NCAA basketball tournament.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Admitting Diagnosis: Pancreatitis.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></i></p>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Final Diagnosis:</i></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8"><i>Chronic pancreatitis<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Pancreas divisum</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Stricture of minor ampulla of Vater<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Stricture of common bile duct</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Stricture of pancreatic duct</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Esophagitis</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Gastritis</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Duodenitis</i></li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Operations Performed:</i></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8"><i>Endoscopic retrograde pancreatography on 3/7/86.</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Exploratory laparotomy with lysis of adhesions, resection of the tail of pancreas.</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Pancreaticojejunostomy and jejunostomy (Roux—En—Y), and choledochojejunostomy, and jejunojejunostomy (Roux—En—Y) on 3/11/86.</i></li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Wow!</p>
</body>
</html>
