<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1404.47" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet2.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%"><b><a id="doc47"></a>EPILOUGE</b></h2>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%; min-height: 19.0px"><br /></h2>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc48"></a>New Memories</i></b></p>
<p class="p5"><i>The events presented here were pieced together from the findings of a private investigator we hired to determine what actually happened. I have no memory of any of these events.</i></p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">On July 20 of 2013, I was driving on Interstate 45 into downtown Houston. I took an exit off of the highway into a parking lot. A police car pulled up; followed by a fire truck.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was laying on the ground next to my new truck which was on fire and full of gasoline. I was arrested for public intoxication. I am sure that I looked, talked, and walked like a drunk. After arresting me, we drove to the downtown police station. Before I was booked and jailed for pubic intoxication, a doctor looked me over. He said “This man is not drunk. He has head trauma. You need to get him to a hospital as soon as you can.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Upon arrival at the hospital, I was helped out of the car; and onto a stretcher. Emergency room nurses took control. Answering a question of what happened, I yelled, “I fell off of a ladder.” I don’t think that ever happened. I was missing my medic alert tag and wallet. Nurses and doctors surrounded me and began to take control of the situation. I was taken to have X-rays and scans.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was admitted into the hospital on July 20. On August 10 I was moved from ICU to a semi private room. I don’t remember anything that occurred in ICU. While in ICU my lungs collapsed. On August 15, I had a Grand Maul seizure. This was followed by a series of small seizures on August 16. The next day I woke up to see my son and his mother (Mom). He lives in Denver, Colorado. She was living in Washington DC. I thought “This must be serious.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">They began to tell me what had happened. Mom said “The surgeon told us that my brain was being split down the middle due to pressure from blood pooling in my skull. You had a bleeding vein. There was concern that the blood may contact the cerebral cortex which would have damaged the nerves in the spine. The surgeon said that they were not sure if I would live more than three hours; so, he started a three hour operation.” I have a dent in my skull where the drill entered to relieve the pressure. The skull was opened by a procedure called a C-cut. I have scars in the shape of a C on each side of my skull.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p7">With regard to what caused this episode, my guess is I got low in blood sugar causing me to lose my balance. I probably fell and struck my head on something.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My first nurse was great. He had been an army ranger. Upon discharge he studied nursing to work as a skilled nurse helping people in their time of need. My second nurse was not as effective. The doctors instructed the nurses to not let me stand by my bed without assistance because my balance had not been restored. Walking on my own was not allowed. The doctor said “Use a urinal. If you don’t have one, get one from a nurse; just don’t walk on your own to the bathroom.” This second nurse was sitting at his desk at the end of my bed when I asked for a urinal.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He didn’t respond. I said “If you don’t get a urinal, I am going to wet this bed. The doctors don’t want me to stand on my own.” I had a pair of clean flannel pajamas in the closet. Loudly I told him “This is your last chance to prevent having to change the sheets because I am going to urinate with or without a urinal.” After I had wet the bed, he walked over and said “You wet the bed. I will have to change your sheets now.” I said “Yes you will. Let me get out of your way.” After he finished changing the sheets, I put on my warm soft flannel pajamas.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was sick from the chronic pain that was not being treated. Nausea from the chronic neuralgia pain and the condition I was in after the brain surgery was causing me to have trouble cleaning my plate. Mom said “Billy you are going to have to start eating what they bring you or they are not going to discharge you.” Without the medic alert tag to inform the doctors of my diabetes insulin dependent status, I was being fed fruit juices and protein drinks. My blood sugar was higher than the meter could register which was 600. The doctors were not taking my diabetes into account. The dietitian had not adjusted my meal plan to keep my blood sugar near normal levels. I overheard two doctors saying “We’re better than this. We should have detected this. Well, this will be easy to fix. It is just a matter of changing his diet.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The man in the bed next to me was dying from liver failure caused by his alcoholism. He made it clear that he wasn’t going to change his ways. He had decided to go out on his own terms. The most unpleasant part of his trip out was his bowel movements made in bed. The army ranger nurse made it clear, while standing at the end of his bed. He said “They don’t pay me to clean up your mess. You need to take a little responsibility. Next time, get up and walk to the bathroom. If you don’t I’ll let you lay in it. Right now I am looking at a dead man.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">One day Doc’s son, who now was a doctor working at this hospital, came up behind me and shook my shoulders. He said “We are going to get you some morphine for the chronic pain.” I had met him when he was an intern working in the hospital that Doc worked in. He was able to get pain medicine for two days, which was a great relief. I got hungry again once the neuralgia was treated. I was eating when Mom sat down and gave me my medic alert tag. I asked, “Where was it?” She said “The police kept your wallet and medic alert tag. I was able to get them for you today. The hospital management office was very happy to find out that you have medical insurance.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked my son what I was like in ICU. He said “Dad, you were talking to people who were not there. You also had hallucinations. The extremely high levels of sugar were giving you horrible headaches. You had a few seizures. One was a grand maul seizure. During the others you just stared into space for a few moments. I said “Well I don’t remember any of it.” It was August 21 when I was able to walk for the first time.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>

<p class="p7">After thirty days, I was scheduled for discharge and transport to a rehabilitation hospital to learn walking and talking. At this point, I still walked and talked like a drunk. After thirty days, I was excited to leave the confines of a hospital. Checking into another hospital for another thirty days of care was dreaded. “Mr. Scherer the ambulance is here to take you.” the care taker said as he walked me to the door. I said “Wait a minute. I’m not sure I want to go. Maybe I could take a cab to my house.” In disbelief he said “Your wife and son think you need to go to rehabilitation.” I said “Maybe I could wait and think about it. Get a good night sleep; and, think it over.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Later Mom told me, “I couldn’t believe you were not going to rehabilitation.” It was stupid of me, a good indicator that I needed to go. On my way to the rehab hospital, I thought to myself “Good grief Billy. You can’t walk a straight line and talk in a normal voice. You need help.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The best part of rehab was my morning walk around the hospital. My physical therapist played defensive end for the University of Oklahoma football team. He was easy to talk to. Getting outside was such a joy. I was being treated with oral medicine for the neuralgia; that and being free to go outside any time I wanted was great. There was a flower garden with a bench seat. I had one bad bout of neuralgia pain that made me nauseated. I asked the nurse for some Phenergan. She said “We don’t provide that because some people used it to get high.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The best food eaten was part of a group activity one day. We made smoothies and fruit pizza. Fruit pizza is a graham cracker crust filled with layers of fresh fruit. Needless to say all of the diabetics were followed to their rooms for blood sugar monitoring and insulin injection.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I left this rehabilitation hospital and moved to another hospital for another thirty days of rehabilitation. The patients would get together in the afternoon around tables to shoot the bull. One day I was explaining my experience of getting arrested and taken to the drunk tank. I explained that getting arrested turned out to be the best thing that could have happened to me because I got to a doctor faster than I could have otherwise. From the doctor’s evaluation, I was taken to the best trauma center in the region quickly. One of the old fellows across the table from me pointed to the sky and said “Somebody was looking out for you that day.” If the police had thrown me into the drunk tank, I could have past out for longer than the three hours the surgeon thought might be the time I had left to live. If that had occurred there would have been an article in the daily paper with a headline that read “Man put in drunk tank dies from head trauma.” If there had not been a doctor at the police station, I think I could have died that day. </p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Prior to the head trauma episode, I had planned on moving to Denver to live near my son. Seeing him on a few holidays a year wasn’t living life to it’s fullest. Until I could get a place of my own, I lived with him in his apartment. Because I had seizures after the brain surgery I was taking anti seizure medicine. Until we got the dosage correct, I was falling a lot. I would be just walking on pavement and my legs would buckle out from under me. I no longer fall on my own.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Another strange affect of the surgery was my lack of ability to control my speaking. I would start talking and wouldn’t stop no matter how long it went on. This was stressful on my relationship with my roommate, son.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After the head trauma and brain surgery, I developed memories of events that did not happen. Even when I was in ICU I was telling tall tales. I informed my son that while living in Clear Lake, Texas I met a man that was in charge of groundskeeping at my apartment complex who was once the King of New Orleans.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked my son “Did I tell you about going to Doc’s vacation home in the mountains near Denver? I went last May for a weekend. He was having a retirement party. There were eighteen or twenty people there.” He responded “Dad you didn’t come up here in May.” In response I said, “I don’t tell you about everything I do.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I also told him that I had talked to Doc before the head trauma. After explaining that I couldn’t remember anything that had happened for the previous seven days, I asked him what could be the cause of the memory loss.” Doc said, “You sound like someone that is going to have a seizure. I will prepare the hospital for your possible arrival. You get an ambulance ready in case you need one.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Before I left Houston, I dated a girl for a while. We were progressing in the relationship to the point where she was able to get me nude. We were standing in front of a large window. She touched the window and said “We’re not alone.” Later she said that “satellites see into my house.” She was in a four girl band that became nationally popular for singing Christian songs. There was a scandal when the news found out that she and the other band members were singing blues in bars. She was also doing a lot of drugs; living a wild life. The media found this out, which embarrassed her father who was on a speaking tour holding Christian concerts with her band. It was quite a coincidence that her father had approached Doc to speak at his meetings about the good work done by him and the medical community in Houston. Doc approached me to speak at one of their meetings when they asked him if he could bring along one of his patients to discuss the help that Doc had provided. The controversy of having a religious minister’s daughter claim to be in a Christian rock band; while living a much different life had caused her father’s ministry much embarrassment. The combination of this and the size of her father’s ministry caused him to appear on a late night talk show. This was quite a surprise when I was watching television one night.</p>
</body>
</html>
