<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1404.47" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet2.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%"><b><a id="doc3"></a>CHAPTER 1</b></h2>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%; min-height: 19.0px"><br /></h2>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc4"></a>Scoping &amp; Coping</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">In December of eighty one, I moved to Houston, Texas from Fayetteville, Arkansas. It was time to go to work. Professors of Civil Engineering taught the delicate balance that exists between preserving the environment and utilizing natural resources for specific purposes. But the greatest lessons of college were learned from friends that joined in the joyous exploration of life and love. So it was with some sadness that I left Fayetteville. It will always hold onto a special part of my memories.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It was May 24, 1982, when my parents arrived to accompany me to the hospital in Houston where I was to undergo the last of a series of diagnostic tests. Previous tests performed by a doctor near my residence in Clear Lake indicated that a gastrointestinal disease may be the cause of my recent pain. He referred me to a specialist he knew to make a diagnosis. Early signs of a gastrointestinal ailment had occurred in my childhood. No one suspected anything more than a nervous stomach.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was anxious about the tests because the pain was increasing with every day. We were all worried as we drove north on Interstate 45 from my apartment in Clear Lake. I hid my fears and tried to downplay the upcoming tests; but mother was quick to point out that “You always need to have your family with you anytime you go under the knife.” The knife? Cora is a deeply caring and religious mother. The daughter of a Baptist minister who shows her emotions with a tendency to worry. The fact that she was the first woman to be a rural route mail carrier in Fort Smith, Arkansas is indicative of her pioneer spirit and abundant energy. She believes strongly in the old adage; if you are going to do something, do it right. There were few jobs she wouldn’t tackle in her younger years. One that keeps coming back to my memory was her desire to be a bull dozer operator. On this day, all of that motherly love and energy was directed toward the hospital and focused on her youngest of three sons. She was keyed.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My father, Bill was quiet on the way. Dealing with Houston traffic was consuming most of his attention; but you could tell he was concerned. Dad’s a self made man. He opted to leave a secure job with Standard Oil and move back to Arkansas from California, after the war to open up a gasoline filling station, on the hope of the future. He had leased the station and recently retired from house building because rising interest rates made house construction a risk not worth taking.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As we walked into one of the famed Houston hospitals, we were in awe of the medical complex where much of the world’s pioneer work in cancer treatment and heart surgery is conducted. I told the hospital admissions clerk that I was scheduled to be admitted.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After a few moments of record searching, she gave me a puzzled look and asked: “What is the nature of your illness?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I’m scheduled to have a series of tests run on my pancreas.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“The only doctor we have by that name is a psychiatrist. Do you need his services?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I am crazy. It’s part of my personality. There is really nothing that can be done about it.” She was nice enough to locate the correct hospital.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc5"></a>Endoscopy and Meeting Doc</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">My parents had left to make the forty minute drive back to Clear Lake, by the time Doc entered the room. It was after ten; so, he was straight forward and efficient in his examination and explanation of the endoscopy that he would perform tomorrow. Doc is a fairly short, stocky man who sits and listens to your symptoms before explaining test results or upcoming procedures. All the nurses were fond of him. Likening him to a lovable, little teddy bear that you just want to hug.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I don’t remember much about the endoscopy, other than the horrible aerosol spray used to numb your throat. I was half asleep, still draggy from the Valium, when Doc arrived that night with the results. Mom was quick to introduce herself and Dad; wasting no time in asking about the findings. Doc described the procedure which entailed the use of a scope positioned on a fiber optic cable to aid the search for the openings of the pancreatic ducts.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Billy has pancreas divisum. This is a condition he was born with. His pancreas is divided into two ducts. Each duct drains digestive enzymes into the duodenum. The smaller accessory duct has a stricture. Which we believe is the cause of his recurrent pancreatitis.” Mom nervously asked what this all meant. Doc’s deep brown eyes reached out to my parents when he told them that I needed exploratory surgery. “We need to see if drainage can be restored; and if necessary, remove the gall bladder. The bile from the gall bladder drains through the head of the pancreas. It is possible that this bile drain has been squeezed shut by the inflammation of the pancreas.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With a nervous look of disbelief, Mom asked, “Can we take him to Ft. Smith for the surgery?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc explained, “There is no time.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Mom’s hand pressed against her forehead as she looked at Dad for answers that no one had. “We don’t know anyone here that can do this type of surgery.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Her nervousness was growing by the second when Doc looked her in the eye and said, “I do. We have him scheduled for surgery at eight o’clock in the morning.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As I laid in bed that night, the words, “there’s no time”, kept echoing in my consciousness. Ignorance of the upcoming pain and trauma allowed for sleep. In little more than a day, I entered a hospital, met a doctor I had never seen before; and was told by that doctor that I was scheduled for major surgery.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc6"></a>Surgical Trip</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">A nurse with shot in hand awakened me with cold alcohol and a swift sting of the needle. My body grew lax and pressed against the bed. A nurse said, “Rollover onto the stretcher Mr. Scherer.” Mom peered over the rail as I rolled it on over. The bed made a quick turn out of the room and hit the doorway, knocking me sideways.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse said, “Are you alright Mr. Scherer?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Ah… yes .” The lights passing overhead were mesmerizing. I couldn’t help from recalling Howard Cosell delivering a television commercial warning about drunken driving creating highway hypnosis. He says, “That endless black ribbon where the centerline becomes mesmerizing, with tragic consequences.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I rolled through a set of large green doors. As my stretcher rolled on, nurses passed, joked, and greeted each other as they began their daily work. It’s about that date last night. The end of night shift is in sight. The new patient on sixth floor makes me want to get out the door. I was wheeled into a room full of patients that looked as sedated as I felt. A nurse said, “we are going to start your IV now.” The folks were shown the waiting room and kindly told: “The doctor will talk with the family after surgery.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Mom squeezed my hand and said, “Hang in there Billy.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I gave her a smile and a thumbs up, as I was wheeled into the room. A nurse asked, “have you had your pre—op shot?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yea.” I rolled my head back. My eyes locked onto the clock. It was seven forty five. It wouldn’t be long. Cutter’s arrival was announced by greetings from every nurse within his sight. He grasped my foot and asked if I was ready. It’s easier to say yes when you have not had abdominal surgery before. His white hair admittedly gave me confidence in his abilities. I would later learn that he studied at Mayo Clinic for seventeen years; learning the art of sewing soft tissue. The kind the pancreas is made of.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With IV in place, I rolled through another set of large green doors. As my stretcher rolled on, I peered through the windows of operating rooms until the nurse stopped and opened another set of doors. I was rolling into the room when I came to an abrupt halt at the edge of a hard surfaced table. With assistance I moved across the bed and came to rest on a cold slab. I was reminded of a veterinary table; and I was the dog.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Electrodes were being placed, as I looked up into a cluster of bright lights. The anesthesiologist said, “We are starting to put you asleep.” In an instant, a noise in my ears escalated from a slight reverberation to the sound of a train rhythmically pounding railroad tracks. My field of vision turned black.</p>
</body>
</html>
