<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1404.47" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet4.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%"><b><a id="doc30"></a>CHAPTER 4</b></h2>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%; min-height: 19.0px"><br /></h2>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc31"></a>Sub-total Pancreatectomy</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Because the pancreatitis had turned into chronic pancreatitis, hospitalization was required to observe the pancreas to asses the risk of rupture. The chronic digestion of the pancreas by digestion enzymes being produced and not exiting the pancreas due to closed ducts was causing a continuous risk of rupture. Because death would occur within fifteen minutes after rupture, this was a risk that had to be assessed.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">From July to October of 1986, the pain would reach levels that had to be treated in a hospital. The severe pain was a sign of severe damage to the pancreas.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 7/28/86 — 8/4/86</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Diagnosis: recurrent pancreatitis, diarrhea secondary to Motrin 400 mg qid.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 8/27/86 — 9/8/86</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Diagnosis: chronic relapsing pancreatitis, chronic pain syndrome.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In August of 1986, I was transferred by ambulance to a pain management school at another hospital.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc32"></a>Pain Management</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">The purpose is to train your mind and body to relax in the hope of increasing endorphin production via self hypnosis. Endorphins bind to opiate receptors in the brain and produce like opiates some pharmacological effects including pain relief. At the very least, the relaxation techniques can reduce the physical strain of pain.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Being outside of the hospital for the first time in two weeks was fun. Classes started as soon as I got there. I was asked to join a discussion group. Everyone introduced themselves and described their pain. Reasons for being at the school included back injuries, drug dependence, and abuse of prescription medicines. The mix included a Houstonian house wife to the much less fortunate. You come here because everything that western medicine can offer was ineffective. These were desperate times being experienced by desperate people.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The treatment regime called for replacing narcotics with non-narcotic medicine, Motrin 600 mg qid, Carafate (ulcer protection) and Doxepin to reduce depression. I couldn’t help but notice that all the colors used to paint our area of the hospital were colors that trigger pleasant thoughts, mauve, light powder blue, small thin lines of yellow, and hints of orange.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">For the most part this was a health spa, first class. It would be difficult not to be relaxed in this place. Your day begins with breakfast at seven thirty; followed by group discussion, biofeedback, whirlpool, massage, and acupuncture.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Self hypnosis is taught to initiate deep relaxation. First you learn to control your breathing. Calmly take a deep breath, then slowly exhale. Focus on a fixed object; then slowly close your eyes. Consciously begin relaxing every muscle. We all have a level of tension, that is effective in keeping us ready to act. With practice, you can calm yourself through this natural state of tension; and reach a state in between sleep and being awake. Use imagery to take yourself to another scene that disconnects you from the pain.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">One of the doctors was called Pretty Boy by the women in the group. He was the one doctor that brought out the worst in me. He was arrogant and prescribed a lot of medicines. After completing the course, I returned to the hospital for observation; making sure I could live without narcotics. Although Doc was in charge of my treatment, Pretty Boy was managing my pain medication from a distance. On the second day after returning to the hospital, I had a severe bout of pain. I told the nurse to call Pretty Boy to order an appropriate pain medicine. She returned with a syringe. I asked her, “What is the Demerol dose?” Calmly she said, “This isn’t Demerol. It’s a nausea medicine.” Frustrated with a raised voice, I said, “That would be like taking a damn aspirin.” No other medicine came that night. For the common goal of something I have yet to establish, I stayed awake all night stressed out subjecting my body to repeated doses of adrenaline. Doc intervened with an order for Demerol/Phenergan by injection, which reduced the pain to a tolerable level. Doc asked me to start trying to make it by taking the Demerol by pill.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After two weeks, I was discharged with prescriptions for Mepergan Fortis (50 mg Demerol capsules), 600 mg Motrin qid, Doxepin, and Carafate to help prevent ulcers that can occur when taking large doses of an anti-inflammatory drug like Motrin. I was able to reduce the number and severity of tension headaches by using the methods taught at the school.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc33"></a>Back to Home Base</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">On December 20 1986, I arrived home from a business trip to Norway. On Christmas Eve I had diarrhea and malaise. I got over all that; however, the pancreatic pain was in full force. I was taking Mepergan Fortis (50 mg Demerol). I put myself on a clear liquid diet to reduce pain from eating solid food. After a couple of weeks, I made the call, “Doc, the pancreas pain has returned. I have been taking the Mepergan Fortis you ordered; but I have reached my limit.” He said, “Do you think you can make it until tomorrow morning? I said, “yes I think so.” “Come to my office in the morning to let me look you over.”</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After greeting Doc’s wife who managed his office, she said, “I told him you called to let us know you would like to see him around ten o’clock. He didn’t schedule any office visits; and he’s not performing any procedures. He’s at the hospital. Let me call him and let him know you’re here. Have a seat. Make yourself comfortable. He’ll be here soon.” When he arrived we discussed my symptoms. “Do you think we need to put you in?” I answered, “Unfortunately I do.” Doc said, “Before we do that, I want to perform an endoscopy to rule out an ulcer. We can do it tomorrow afternoon, if you can. I checked the hospital schedule; and there is an opening at two. After the procedure, he met me in the recovery room at the hospital. Doc said, “You didn’t break a record for size; but, I found a 1.2 cm sharply demarcated bleeding ulcer. I think that is the source of your pain. I’m going to admit you for treatment of the ulcer and pain management.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After what seemed like gallons of antacid to cure the ulcer, the final showdown with my pancreas began as I was admitted into the hospital on May 24, 1987. I wouldn’t leave until September 1. I got the usual treatment, at first: NPO, IV, and narcotic pain medications. In medical terms, I was a well developed, well nourished, young male with chronic relapsing pancreatitis.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">June was coming to an end; but the pain was not responding to nothing by mouth (NPO), everything by tube. Doc and I agreed to allow experts in pain management attempt to reach a discharge status via replacement of narcotics by anti—inflammatory drugs, anti—depressants, and amino acid drugs.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">On July 2, pain management was taken over by doctors from the pain management school that I attended. Pretty Boy was my doctor. He ordered an elixir with a relatively low dose of Demerol. This eliminated the quick relief provided by injection into muscle tissue with a syringe.  Injection by syringe is considered to be easier to result in addiction. Doc left instructions for me to have the nurse call him, if I felt like I needed a stronger dose of pain medicine than what was ordered by the pain management doctor. He said, “Try to make it on their order; but don’t suffer.” Of course getting a nurse to call is difficult. Doc told me that “It’s their duty to deny pain medicine and provide cold bed pans.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After three days of using the elixir, I was beginning to think I wasn’t going to be able to make it without using a larger dose of narcotic. I was confronted by the need for the drug and the cold hard fact that life cannot exist in a hospital. If my night is like this day, it’s going to be a long one.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked the nurse to call Pretty Boy to tell him I can’t make it without an increase in the narcotic dosage.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse replied, “Mr. Scherer your doctor has ordered the elixir that has a narcotic in it. I said, “Then, please call Doc and tell him I can’t make it on the elixir alone.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She said in a firm voice, “Please try to relax and go back to sleep.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Sleep!” I had been awake all night.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I walked the halls trying to get my mind off of the pain. I felt that I could make it until nine o’clock am. At eight o’clock, I called Pretty Boy myself. His assistant answered the phone: “He’s not in.” I replied, “then contact him by beeper because I need him to approve a Demerol shot for acute pancreatitis.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Thirty minutes later, there had been no response. I convinced a nurse to call. She did and was told that he will be making his call backs shortly after he arrives.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked, “When is that?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">His assistant said, “Around nine.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">At nine thirty, I said screw it. I got Doc’s office on the phone. Doc’s wife answered the phone.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “Hi this is Billy Scherer.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She said, “Oh hi. Aren’t you in the hospital?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yea. Doc told me to ask the nurse to call if my pain meds aren’t holding me. They aren’t. I did. She wouldn’t.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Let me page him. He’ll be over to the hospital soon anyway.” I was laying in the bed looking up at the ceiling crying my eyes out. My breathing became filled with stutter and tears. My roommate’s family was sitting around his bed, with the drape open. His mother leaned over as she asked if I needed a nurse. Cutter’s nurse just happened to be on the floor. She walked to my bedside.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She said, “Are you in pain?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Oh, I’m in here bouncing off the walls because he didn’t leave anything for serious pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She asked, “Who didn’t?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“The pain management doctor.” Uncontrollable cries came out. Her calm hand carefully pressed against my head. Checking my temperature, slowly caressing my forehead, cheeks, and my shoulder. Her caring came from her heart through her eyes to me, great caring.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I could hear Doc jogging to my room. She had left to get a nurse to give me a shot, when Doc came in. Through my crying, I tried to form words. Doc put his hand on my shoulder and said, “You did the right thing.” He instructed me to move to various positions. The shot came quickly. I got the max. I needed it.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It was around eleven when Pretty Boy responded. I was surprised to hear Doc take the call at the nurses’ station. I could hear him saying, “I believe he is having legitimate pancreatic pain that requires narcotic medicines to keep him relaxed until we can help him.” After the phone call, Doc left. Later that day Pretty Boy showed up.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As he walks in, polite hellos are exchanged. “Your doctor tells me you think the pain medicine we’re giving you is insufficient to control your pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In response I said, “It’s not controlling the pain.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “You should have had the nurse call me when you began to need relief.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“We did. The nurse called and I called.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“When?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“First at eight; then again at eight thirty.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“At ten thirty, I received a message stating that you wanted additional pain medicine. I called Doc to discuss it with him. I was very upset to learn that pain medicine had been administered. I thought there was an understanding with everyone that we would be in charge of pain medicine administration. I’ll be talking to your doctor after this visit with you. What were the symptoms that made you feel like you needed additional medicines?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I gritted my teeth and said, “Look. In all probability, I’m going to have surgery. This is a last ditch effort to prevent major surgery that I have had twice before. You believe that it’s okay to leave a patient, sick with pancreatitis, in pain for six hours?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He looked down at me and said, “We are trying to reduce your use of narcotic medication. Never the less, you are receiving almost as much medicine as you were getting prior to our taking over the pain medicine administration. I’ll speak with the other doctors to see if any changes should be made in your medicines. When combined with self hypnosis and biofeedback, you can eliminate the narcotics.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With a stern look, I said, “You have got me on four or five medicines when all I need is a shot of Demerol.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In a defensive manor he said, “But if you keep using Demerol, your tolerance will increase; you’ll need more Demerol. Your body will reduce production of endorphins because the opiate Demerol is taking the place of your body’s own defense mechanism. Depression will then be a danger to watch out for.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In disbelief I said, “What? You think the stress put on me last night is in some way helping me.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“You can’t live in the hospital.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Someone that does not think this state of affairs is not depressing should have their head examined.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said defensively, “You are very angry. Are you angry with me, personally?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yes. I think leaving a pancreas patient to be attended by nurses, without orders to administer the medicines needed for severe pain is terrible.” He left shortly afterward. “God that man brings the worst out in me.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As usual I was near the end of Doc’s schedule because he knows that I’m a night owl. When he walked in, Mom said, “Well, you missed the fireworks when Billy met with the pain doctor.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said, “He told me that Billy was very angry and verbally hostile to him. I said Billy? I’ve never heard him be hostile to anyone.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Mom looked at Doc and said, “You can only push Billy so far.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc told me that Pretty Boy was no longer employed at the Pain Management School. Prior to surgery steroids were tried as a desperate measure to avoid surgery. It was ineffective. Surgery was the only means of eliminating the risk of the pancreas rupturing. If drainage cannot be restored, then the pancreas will be removed. Doc ask me to attend some classes at the diabetic treatment center in the hospital.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">During that last week, I sat in on afternoon classes. I vividly remember the nurse giving herself an injection of saline to demonstrate the best method for injecting insulin. I was less than enthusiastic about giving myself a shot every day, even if the needles were small. The doctors told me that if there is a good type of diabetes to have, you will have it. I would have it because I wouldn’t have the disease. I just won’t make insulin. Persons who have the disease have a package of genetic weaknesses. In addition, I would be able to use the insulin very efficiently.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">There was one other side to the issue. Not only would I not make insulin, I wouldn’t make glucagon either. Glucagon is the body’s natural safety mechanism preventing low blood sugar in healthy persons. Since the brain gets one hundred percent of its energy from glucose, I was definitely concerned. Additionally, blood glucose levels would be altered by the liver’s reaction to pain. It retains glucose to assist in fighting pain. High levels of pain cause blood glucose levels to increase.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Temporary or permanent nerve blocks were considered in consultation with another hospital. In the end, I was ready to take action and get on with it. The plan was simple. First, determine if I would benefit from filleting the pancreas down the middle and covering the organ with tissue; it would drain into the intestines via the connection that was put in during the second surgery. If the pancreas is dead, it will be removed. A small piece of pancreas, the rim, will be left because there are large blood vessels running through it. Severing of one of these blood vessels during surgery would create a life threatening situation. Additionally the pancreas produces hormones with unknown purposes and destination. Therefore the rim would be left to maintain production of these hormones. A portion of the ganglion associated with the pancreas will be removed. This area will be covered by tissue to hopefully reduce post surgical neuralgia.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">There was just one hitch. There is a small percentage of people, who have their pancreas removed, who don’t achieve any reduction in pain. It was a chance that I was ready to take. Unlike the first surgery, when I was protected by ignorance, I knew full well how much this was going to hurt.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I had taken a lot of Demerol during this stay, increasing my tolerance to narcotic pain medicines. Even though it would be used, it was still going to hurt more than can be imagined.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">On July 17, 1987, I could hear that loud train coming on the long black track. The pounding of the tracks came closer and closer together; then, there was the familiar lights out, bam!</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc34"></a>Recovery</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Doc was at the end of my stretcher, when I began to wake up. “We had to take your pancreas out. You did great.”</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As always, my first words were directed at getting pain medication in the IV. Doc assured me, “They’re fixing it right now.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I still had the oxygen mask on; I wasn’t trying to rip it off, like last time. My breathing was steady. It was a surprise to be able to accept the level of pain. Don’t get me wrong. It hurt, a lot. I pointed to my stomach.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc replied, “You want to know about the operation?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I nodded yes.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Your pancreas was dead. The pain you were experiencing was from the scar tissue pressing against the primary nerves that run from one end of your pancreas to the other.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked, “What about the diabetes?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“We’re going to monitor that closely. All you need to think about is getting rest. You look a lot better than you did during the last recovery.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I smiled as I nodded in agreement. “I want the mask off.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc reached toward me when he said, “Okay, here let me get it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked, “Was there a lot of scar tissue?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “Yes. He had to work for more than a hour to get through the scar tissue; before he could even begin to operate on the pancreas. Like I told you earlier, I’m going to be out of town for a few days. Doctor Martin will be watching you. He is very thorough. You are in good hands.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I shook his hand. He embraced my arm and smiled with those warm, caring big brown eyes.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc35"></a>ICU</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">The trauma was significantly less since no intestines were cut. The biggest surprise was that my blood sugar levels reached above two hundred (Normal: 80 — 180) only once during that twenty two hour stretch before I finally fell asleep for the first time. I got a little over a hour of sleep. Subsequent monitoring showed no diabetes. The one thing that my pancreas could do was make insulin. It continued to make sufficient insulin with just the pancreatic rim left in my body. The rim was covered with islet cells, a condition called hyperplasia of the islet cells in the pancreas.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Although the pain wasn’t as intense, it was maintained over longer bouts. I was using a lot of Demerol. I had severe tension headaches that could not be relieved via hypnosis. Fioricet did the trick.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc36"></a>Back on the Floor</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">On the way up to my room, I winced every time the wheelchair hit a bump. After getting settled in, I put a wet rag over my eyes. I kept one hand on the Demerol button and one hand on the nurse call button. A middle aged nurse checked out all of the gauges and pumps used in hyperalimentation.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I will be checking on you quite a bit tonight.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My roommate had a swollen foot; something very common among diabetics. It looked terrible. A drape closed off my side of the room. I could hear the old fellow getting out of bed. He appeared at the end of my bed and began to say, “We’ve got to close this place up. They’re gonna come get us. I’m gonna close these window shades so they can’t see what we’re doing.” I hit both buttons.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse gently led him back to bed. He limped back over as soon as she left the room. I hit the nurse button. Once again she pulled him away from the windows next to my bed. He was continuing his paranoia about invaders. We were on the fourth floor. When you’re doing Demerol and awaken, you don’t know if you’ve slept two minutes or two hours. I awoke to a surreal sight at the end of my bed.  My six foot tall roommate had a steel IV pole in his left hand.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">His right hand was being put behind him by one nurse. Another nurse was injecting him with a syringe full of Thorazine. I hit the morphine button. Use of a straight jacket was discussed as they put him in a wheel chair. One of the nurses apologized saying, “He shouldn’t be in this hospital. We don’t care for mentally challenged patients.” The shot calmed him down, a lot. He was gone when I woke up.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc37"></a>Code Blue</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">“Code blue. Code blue. Fourth floor east wing. Code blue. Code blue. Fourth floor east wing. Code blue. Code blue. Fourth floor east wing.” The monotone voice from the intercom stopped. Standing in my doorway, I saw doctors running by the nurse’s station. I turned and looked into the room of a young pregnant woman. Three doctors were trying to save a life. Each action was announced and immediately taken. Following each procedure a doctor was verbally preparing for the next procedure if vital signs didn’t improve. The doctor’s were going through the calculated steps required to maintain life.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After about five minutes, her room was quiet. Doctors took turns washing up at the nurses’ station. It was my first time to witness a death, let alone two deaths at once. My chest felt heavy as I pondered.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The next week, I was awakened by a nurse, “Would you like to step out of your room for a few minutes?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was puzzled as I asked, “Why?”.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Well, your roommate has died. You can stay if you feel that it wouldn’t be good for you to be getting out of bed. We could get a wheel chair if you would like one.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“No. I’ll leave.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">This old fellow had been wailing in pain for five days; refusing to take Demerol most of the time. He had all the symptoms of pancreatitis. I guessed that his poor health and age precluded surgery. I shared my concern over lack of treatment with Doc one night. Being the professional he is; he just shook his head.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">His son was crying as he left the room. He said, “I heard you talking to your doctor about my father. He had pancreatic cancer that was diagnosed during surgery.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Stunned, speechless, and feeling like a naive fool, I went out to the lobby. You can’t help but think about death in a place like this, especially when your roommate dies, a slap in the face to let me know that it could be worse. Death is the ultimate price paid for rest.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc38"></a>Addiction</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">This was without a doubt one of the strangest experiences of my hospital stays. Doc was on vacation for a week; so, one of his associates covered for him. After looking at my records and speaking with me he said, “You shouldn’t be having this much pain, this late in your recovery.”</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It was a typical morning, when my parents walked in. I was on my knees pressing my head against the bedspread in the prayer stance. A nurse walked in and said, “I’m getting your pain medicine now.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Mom responded, “Billy, you have got to get off of these shots; and, get out of here. It’s been almost a month since the surgery.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“It hurts, okay.” During the day, we talked frequently about needing to get off the shots.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was eating supper when Doc arrived. I greeted him by saying, “I think the only way I’m going to get out of here is to get off of these shots. I think I may be addicted.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said, “It would be very unusual for you not be addicted, given the amount of narcotic you have had to take to control your pain. But, you have been slowly reducing your use of the Demerol, which makes me believe that you’re near the end.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I suggested that, “Maybe I should just go home and ride it out.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc quickly stated, “No. There are serious reactions that can occur if one abruptly tries complete withdrawal.” He prescribed Mepergan Fortis in a capsule (50 mg Demerol) starting that night.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I slept for only a couple of hours. Frustration took hold, knowing that not more than twenty feet away was Demerol that would put me to rest. It was a rough night. For most of the next day, I took the pills as soon as time allowed. It was around ten p.m. when I heard Doc outside.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I pushed my call button. The nurse quickly responded. “Ask Doc if I can have a shot. I have been in pain for about twenty five hours.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She looked at Doc and said, “He wants a shot.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He replied, “What has he had today?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“He has only taken oral pain medicine today.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc didn’t hesitate to say: “Let him have it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Man, that sounded good. As Doc approached my bed he said, “The nurse told me you wanted a shot.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I replied, “Yea. I need to get some sleep.” Doc said, “Try to use the pill next time. I will see you tomorrow.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My parents left the room. I began to cry, when I hugged my wife. She consoled me. When I woke up the next day, I was pain free. I greeted Doc, “No pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Really,” Doc said.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“He hasn’t had any pain medicine all day. Isn’t that wonderful,” Mom proudly reported.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I would have sworn on a stack of bibles that I was having post operative pain. To get the drug, my brain was reproducing post operative pain because that’s how it got the drug in the first place. What a trip.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 5/24/87 — 9/1/87</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Final Diagnosis:</i></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8"><i>Chronic relapsing pancreatitis</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Chronic pain syndrome</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Diabetes mellitus, post pancreatectomy, reflux esophagitis</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Post operative ileus</i></li>
</ul>
</body>
</html>
