<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1404.47" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet4.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%"><b><a id="doc39"></a>CHAPTER 5</b></h2>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%; min-height: 19.0px"><br /></h2>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc40"></a>Breakdowns</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Seeing Doc again was great. Doc inquired, “How has it been going since I saw you last?” “Good. I am the father of a healthy son.” Grinning with his big brown eyes shining, he asked “Pictures?”</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Looking down I said, “I’m ashamed to say it, no pictures.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“When was your last appointment?” Doc asked while thumbing through the file which was now well into Volume II.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I replied, “I believe it was October 1. I’ve been pretty much pain free since getting discharged. During the last few days, I have started to feel minor pain. It’s the first I’ve had since discharge.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He inquired, “Does any one thing set it off?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“No. It’s real shallow and not sustained. I’ve probably taken a total of five or six Talwin tablets (pain medicine). What could be causing it?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He answered, “We left a piece of the pancreas called the rim in you. It’s possible that scar tissue is pressing against the nerves in that small piece. It could also be neuralgia; created by scar tissue irritating nerves in the bed of the pancreas.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“What nerves?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“When Cutter took out your pancreas, he cut nerves that once operated the pancreas. He also took out a portion of the ganglion in the bed of the pancreas. He covered the severed nerves with tissue; hoping to prevent regeneration of the nerves.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Why has it decided to get active now?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said calmly, “It takes about three months for scar tissue to form after abdominal surgery. It has been a little more than three months.” I asked, “Will it get worse?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I don’t know Bill.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was a little down about my future. Doc just looked at me and said, “Billy you’re alive.” I told him “I have a lot to be thankful for.” I just have to always have that at the front of my memories. Without the skill of my doctors, I wouldn’t be where I am today.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Two weeks after this appointment, I entered the hospital for eight days of Christmas hospitality. It was another partial small bowel obstruction caused by adhesions.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc41"></a>Diabetes</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">For several weeks in 1991, I had been eating a lot of ice cream and drinking fruit juice, unconsciously craving sugar. Without insulin, sugars are not absorbed by the cells for energy; blood glucose levels rise. Sugar Doc confirmed my suspicion by measuring my blood sugar. I was to be admitted into the hospital on Monday for schooling to learn about self treatment. Over the weekend, I remained inactive to prevent ketoacidosis, a condition that occurs when there is no insulin to turn food into energy. Instead fat is broken down starting a process that creates ketones. The result of this process is the conversion of body fluids into acids. This is an ICU event.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Physiology and behavior were taught to help diabetics learn to measure and inject insulin, monitor blood glucose levels, eat properly, and exercise, all for maintaining normal blood glucose levels from eighty to one eighty. It was a five day program. Mom and Dad made the trip. We were all concerned about the levels of pain that I was having. After meals the pain would escalate. It didn’t take Doc long to diagnose an ulcer. I asked, “Are you going to scope me?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc answered, “We’ll take a look on Monday.” After the endoscopy, Doc showed me the ulcer on film. By the end of the week, I was feeling a lot better and schooled in treatment of diabetes. It is up to you to treat.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">One of my roommates was a big fellow, probably two hundred and fifty pounds on a frame that was easily six foot tall. His dietician worked out his meal plans for the week, which accounted for the doctor’s order for him to lose weight. On Tuesday morning, he was sitting on the edge of the bed when the nurse placed his tray on the night stand. He uncovered the plate and just stared at the two little scoops of scrambled eggs, two small strips of bacon, an English muffin, and skim milk. He looked like a sad puppy dog looking down into an empty food bowl. “I’m gonna get hungry if I can’t eat sweet pies at work and have me a regular breakfast.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc42"></a>Hospitalization</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">In the fall of 1993, Talwin failed to control the neuralgia. After six days of not eating much due to nausea, my stamina was severely depleted. Poor nutrition was taking a toll on my body.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I had called Doc to discuss treatment. I said, “Doc, I have been living on a liquid diet and pain pills since I spoke with you last week.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc replied, “I think you need to come in to the hospital to let us determine what’s causing your pain. Do you want to be admitted as an emergency patient or go through general admissions?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“No. Just go through general admissions.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Nauseated from pain; and down to one hundred and thirty five pounds from one fifty eight two months before, I checked in for rest from reality. Doc was on the floor, which meant Demerol soon. It was especially quiet even for a Sunday. I was dizzy as I walked up to the nurses’ station with my shades still on.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc walked over and held my clammy hand. He said, “You don’t look good Bill. Nurse could you check his sugar? Doesn’t he look pale to you?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse responded, “It’s not his sugar. He’s at one thirty seven.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said, “Then he needs a shot. Give him 75/25 Demerol/Phenergan.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc43"></a>Pain Management Revisited</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">After a week, I was transferred to the pain school to retrain and practice hypnosis and biofeedback. I would not be given any narcotics for pain. I began therapy by meeting the doctors, who sat around the perimeter of a long table.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Are there twenty of you now?”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">One of the doctors corrected the count: “Twenty two today.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said to myself, “expensive meeting.” A counselor I met during my previous attendance to the pain school smiled and waved. The group that I worked with during my original attendance had merged with a hospital to treat chronic pain, addiction, and other behavioral diseases.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">One of the doctors asked, “Could you tell us your symptoms?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I had a really bad pain bout last week. I went to the hospital; and was given Demerol and Phenergan.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Do you feel that the use of the techniques being taught here can allow you to reduce and hopefully eliminate your use of narcotic medications?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I replied, “Since my discharge from the hospital, I haven’t had hardly any pain. The Demerol I took at the hospital was effective in breaking the pain cycle, at least for now. The test will be when I begin to have pain again.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Head Doc is one of those guys that hides his baldness by combing his hair from one side over his plainly visible bald head to the other ear. A psychiatrist, that is going to guide me through the rough and jagged edges of intense uninterrupted pain; and he can’t even deal with going bald. After entering his office, he closed the door behind me. He was my psychiatrist during the original training session in 1986.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I rubbed my hands together and said, “Look. I could bullshit you and you bullshit back; but that’s not going to do either one of us any good. I don’t think discontinuing use of narcotic pain medications is possible. There is no way my body can produce sufficient endorphins to relieve this pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “But isn’t that a self fulfilling prophecy? If you tell yourself you can’t do it, you will never achieve the potential good that can be attained by using hypnosis and the other techniques that we teach here. The quality of your life is being damaged by your daily use of narcotics. You’re isolating yourself from your wife, who is considering divorce. Getting off of the narcotics would help your marriage. About ninety one percent of people who have chronic pain get divorced.” As he said that, I slumped down into the chair in despair.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The stay was progressing normally, until the late afternoon of the fourth day. Pain returned after dinner. Dry heaves started at around three a.m. At seven a.m. I asked a nurse to call a doctor. A gastroenterologist showed up to work through my case with me. He said, “You are such a young man to have to have lived through as much as you have. Are you married?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yes. We’re trying; but it has been really difficult for her. She has had to put up with a lot living with me and the chronic pain. I’m not sure we are going to make it. We are meeting with our marriage counselor and a counselor from your group today. It is very difficult to live with a chronic pain patient. When you say ‘I don’t feel like doing that.’ She believes it is because I don’t love her anymore. I still love her; but I may just be literally too sick to do whatever it is that she wants to do. That can be sex, going out with friends, or just going out together to eat dinner or see a movie.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As he left the room I asked, “Can you give me anything for pain?” A wave and a smile answered my call as he left the room. I was ready for a shot of anything, any way. Finally a nurse with a shot came into my room. I asked her, “What is the medicine your using?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She said, “The doctor has ordered Stadol.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Stadol makes my heart race. I’ve had it before; and my heart raced.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She responded by saying, “Let me see if I can get something else.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “Oh, go ahead and give it to me. I’m so desperate at this point; I’ll take about anything.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After the medicine was injected into my body, my heart rate jumped. Eventually my pulse lowered to a comfortable rate. Looking from the bed, my perpendicular view was imploded by spouse and counselors. I was strung out from being up all night mainlining adrenaline produced by my body in reaction to the pain. After the session, I informed them that I would not be attending my exit session with the Doc Troop, spouse, and counselor.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“You’re not going to go to your own exit session?” our marriage counselor asked.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I replied, “No. I am going to call Doc and transfer to a hospital where pain will be relieved by Demerol.” I called Doc and asked to be transferred. “Doc, I’m having acute pain again. I have been up all night with the dry heaves. There are no hard feelings over here. They just don’t treat acute pain. My pain might not be acute in medical terms; but it is very acute for me. This is a bout measured in days, compared to months and years.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said, “Okay. Well, let’s get you over here and we’ll scope you. Have you eaten anything since midnight last night?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“No.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc asked, “Can you get a ride over to the hospital?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yea. My wife is going to take me.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“After you are admitted, go to endoscopy and I will meet you there to help prep you.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Admitting is never fun, especially when you are acutely sick. After being admitted, I went to endoscopy. Upon entering, I kept myself busy talking to the nurses. I knew most of them by name. One nurse asked, “What are you doing here?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I just missed you so much, I had to come back to see how everyone is doing. And, I like wearing these hospital gowns. They really set the trend in indecent casual wear.” Doc came in and said, “We can do it now.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It was IV time. The nurse was having a hard time threading the needle into the vein. Doc walked up and said, “Let me try.” I offered a possible explanation for the difficulty in placing the IV. “I think my veins are constricted due to stress.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As he missed the vein, he said, “I think you’re right.” He asked a nurse to go see if an anesthesiologist is available. He said, “They use these special needles. They won’t let anyone else use them.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse returned to say, “I couldn’t find either doctor.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc finally got it stuck. “Can I have the medicine before you deaden my throat with that awful spray?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Sure. You want the pre-procedure medicine now?” I looked at Doc and said, “Yes please. I have been in pain all day.” Normally the medicine is given to you just before the start of the countdown. The technician moved me into the procedure room. I started to countdown from fifty to zero. Of course you never get near zero: 50,49,48,….At 30 I began going into dreamland. Attempts were made to awaken me. I didn’t respond; so the dose of Valium that is necessary to make sure you don’t wake up during the procedure was given.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After the procedure, I asked how it went.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said, “You kept us all laughing.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I replied, “Well, I don’t remember any of it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“You had a suture working through the intestinal wall. There was also mild gastritis which shows up on most of your studies.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“It doesn’t sound like any of this would cause the level of pain that I’m having.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc replied, “There was an area that appeared inflamed like an ulcer. I couldn’t get the scope into position to see it well enough to say for sure. Have you ever taken Talwin by injection?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“No just the pills.” Doc wrote the orders that included a normal diet.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was eating everything they brought in, with little pain when Head Doc came in to discuss my treatment. “Hi. How are you today?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Good.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He followed up by asking, “What is Doc planning to do?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Sitting up in the bed I said, “I don’t know. He saw a suture working into the duodenum and what appeared to be an irritated area that could be an ulcer. It was hidden behind a turn in the intestine. He couldn’t get a good view with the scope.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Okay, I’ll contact Doc about treatment.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc came by as I was finishing off the last of my meal. With a quick step he said, “Hello. Hello. How’s it going today?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Alright.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“It looks like you’re eating well. Don’t forget to eat that delicious hospital Jello.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “I feel pretty good. I haven’t had to take too many pain shots. I don’t know what the night will bring; but so far so good.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said, “I am planning on letting you go home on Monday if you do well tonight and tomorrow night.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Great. Head Doc came by. He said he would call you to discuss treatment.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc nodded and said, “Okay. See you tomorrow.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">You could tell he had more patients to see. My plans for getting discharged were rudely squashed around ten o’clock that night. Talwin injections took care of most of the attack; but keeping my pulse rate from accelerating was hard to do. Thump, thump, thump pounding against my eardrums. Pain signals flew down nerves.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As the nurse gave me a pain shot, she said, “I’m going to call your doctor when my shifts ends at seven and tell him that your pain meds aren’t holding you.” I could hear her talking to Doc on the phone. “I am the nurse taking care of Billy Scherer. I wanted you to know that his pain meds aren’t holding him. It’s obvious that he is in pain. He hasn’t slept any during my shift.” There was a pause. “Okay, thank you.” She came back in to say, “Doc wants you to use Phenergan in combination with the Talwin until he can come see you. He thought it would be in a couple of hours.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">That, I could deal with. After lunch, Doc came in. I could only answer his polite inquiry to how I was doing with, “Oh I’ve been up all night in pain. I’ve been taking shots ever three to four hours. I threw up my lunch.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With concern he said, “I heard that. The pain was severe?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yea. So other than that, I’m feeling really great.” My words were broken up and washed with tears streaming down my face.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc asked calmly, “Do you want a pain shot?” Nodding yes, my hands went to my eyes and then to my robe to loose the tears. “I’m going to give you Demerol. Let me ask a nurse to bring it in.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I could hear Doc speaking to the nurse “Could you give Billy Scherer a shot of 75/25 Demerol and Phenergan?” Returning to the room he said, “She will bring it as soon as she can. Don’t get too down Bill. I’m going to ask a neurosurgeon to come see you. He takes care of people in pain caused by cancer and other severe illnesses.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked, “How do they treat cases like mine?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I don’t know. You can talk to Nerve Cutter, when he comes by.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I inquired, “When will that be?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He answered, “Hopefully tomorrow afternoon.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc44"></a>Surgery?</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Of what? Everything that could be cut is out. With a new hope, I anticipated his visit. We met and went through my history; something that I was getting good at.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “Let me tell you about the procedure. The procedure goes like this. I’ll make two incisions in the middle part of your back. One on each side of your spine. The incisions are about four inches long.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“The back?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He responded, “Yes, until we reach the lungs.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“The lungs?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “I’ll cut through a rib on each side of your spine. I can then reach the nerves, separate them from the lungs, cut them into, and cap them with a metal boot to prevent regeneration. It will help the abdominal pain, but you may not get much relief from irritated nerves in the pancreas bed. There’s not a lot that can be done about that. The nerves that will be cut transmit messages to and from the pancreas and brain. Since you don’t have a pancreas we can cut those nerves.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked, “What are the side effects?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Calmly he said, “The surgery can cause you to quickly empty your bowels. Some patients suffer from diarrhea. Since you take a lot of pain medicine, you probably won’t have that problem.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “I’m always on the other end of that one.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He added, “When arising, you will need to sit up for twenty or thirty seconds before standing. Otherwise you could lose your balance. It could cause you to fall. I’ll call Doc to schedule the procedure next week. I’ll shoot for Friday. If you decide to have the operation, I want you to be admitted on Thursday to make sure you are ready for surgery.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">That night I talked to Doc about it. He said, “I believe Nerve Cutter can give you relief from a good portion of the abdominal pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With hope I said, “I can live with the back pain. Not this though.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was sent home with a narcotic pain medicine patch and a narcotic elixir. Staying heavily drugged, I made it to admission on Thursday. After reaching the floor, Doc came by to tell me “The insurance company won’t approve an overnight stay prior to this operation.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Bewildered I said, “The insurance company does understand the procedure?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yes” he replied.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Angry at the insurance business I said, “Good grief. They’re going to slice to my lungs and they don’t feel I need to get ready for that?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He shook his head and said, “I can only tell you what it says here in this note, taken by my office. They won’t approve the extra day prior to the operation.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Frustrated I said, “Don’t worry about it. I’ll pay to be here. Insurance companies!” My blood wouldn’t clot fast enough; so, I was given a shot of vitamin K. Malnutrition from too many clear liquid diet days was the cause. The insurance covered the cost of the one night stay, since I received treatment that was required before the operation could be performed.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It was time. The familiar ceiling tiles passed like always as I was rolled to surgery. Call it experience; I could foresee the level of post operative pain. I knew it wasn’t going to be nearly as bad as pancreas surgery. As I was wheeled into the operating room, Nerve Cutter leaned over the edge of the stretcher and said, “I forgot to mention that this procedure can cause impotency.” The pre—op shot kicked in as I stared in disbelief. Afterward, I decided that I would have had the operation regardless of the side effects.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I carried on what I thought was a logical conversation with Doc in recovery. I was sent to intensive care for one night, an extra measure of care given my history and tolerance to narcotics. On November 15, 1993, twelve days after admission, I was discharged knowing what it feels like to be shot in the back with two arrows.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Once at home, I slowly started working to get my legs back in shape and gain strength. After a few days, the pain became increasingly worse and was hardly being controlled at all by the Talwin. I was about blow. I laid down on the bed to use self hypnosis to lower my heart rate and relax my muscles. I started repeating, “I can’t take it anymore…can’t take it anymore…can’t take it ... anymore.” Tears streamed down my face as I said, “Damn it stop.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My wife did all she could to calm me down. She called Nerve Cutter to get additional pain medicine. She handed me the phone. I told him my symptoms.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “You are having an anxiety attack. Give me a drug store phone number; and I’ll call in an order of Xanex.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Anxiety attacks to me were something that crazy people had. I had to be at my son’s school for Thanksgiving lunch. I’ll get the pills after the lunch. The turkey and dressing had to be washed down with tea, a trick used when you’re nauseated but need to eat to prevent blood glucose from getting too low. My heart beat got louder and louder. I was weak. I made it to the bathroom wondering which orifice would serve to relieve. Afterward, I walked back to the lunchroom in a dizzy swagger. I was trying to force some food down, when my wife asked, “Billy, do you need to go home?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I looked at her and said, “I may need to go to the emergency room.” Not wanting to alarm my son, I finished the lunch. Once in the car, she asked if I wanted to try the Xanex before going to the hospital. My hands were shaking. I began to cry uncontrollably. My arms and legs were going numb from hyperventilation. “No. Hospital.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She wisely said, “Are you sure. Why don’t you try it first.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Not thinking clearly I said, “No!”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She said, “Alright. That’s where we’re going. Okay? Relax. Do your breathing exercises to calm down.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Tears were streaming onto my hands as I grasped my forehead. I entered the emergency room dazed and confused as I said, “I need pain medicine. I can’t handle the level of the pain I’m having.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In disbelief the nurse said, “Who is your doctor?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I answered, “Nerve Cutter and Doc.” I yelled, “I want to be admitted so that I can be put to rest.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">A doctor entered and asked why I needed pain medicine.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I was discharged just the other day for an operation to severe my pancreas nerves. I’m having chronic pain and I can’t take it anymore.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He asked, “Where is your pain coming from?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I pulled my shirt away from the bandaged incisions. “It’s coming from this and the pain that caused me to have this operation.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He looked puzzled and asked, “What did they do when they operated?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “They severed primary nerves that transmit information to and from the brain and pancreas. It was done to get me out of the hospital and eating without throwing up.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He shook his head and said, “Rest a minute and let me talk to your doctor.” Another doctor entered to see what was up.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was still crying, when a nurse told me “We are talking to your doctor on the phone.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As she walked away, I cried, “Tell him I need to be admitted to get relief from post operative pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She returned with the phone. Nerve Cutter said, “Mr. Scherer you are having an anxiety attack. Did you take the Xanex I prescribed?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“No. I need to be put to rest; admitted into the hospital for a day or two.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He answered, “I can’t do that. The hospital administrator would have my neck if I admitted you into the hospital, given that you were discharged just a few days ago.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “You’re saying that you can’t admit me for relief of pain?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He firmly stated, “If you will go home and take the Xanex along with your pain medicines, you will get relief and feel better soon.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In frustration I gave the phone to a nurse. I thought, “Hospitals are supposed to help people in need. I’m in pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">A nurse gave me a Xanex. As I walked out of the room to exit, the nurse that I had vented my emotions on said, “He’s approved a Demerol injection. Do you want it?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Sure, I would love it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My entire energy was directed at ending that pain. The shot hit with swiftness. I began to relax.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">A nurse responded to my moan, “What’s that Mr. Scherer?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I slumped down in the chair of the waiting room; and said, “I think chronic pain is a very misunderstood disease.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">One of the doctors said, “I know. If you go to treatment, you’re looked upon as an addict. At hospitals no one wants to admit on a chronic disorder.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">To me that was a nervous breakdown. Xanex was very beneficial during the next few months which included the guts of divorce.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc45"></a>Many Mini Visits</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">On one particular day, I began to have pain around my heart. Sugar Doc gave me a physical exam. An EKG showed no trouble with my heart. Sugar Doc said, “Lactic acid builds up in any muscle and causes cramps. You have been experiencing a rapid heart beat for a long time. You may feel pain there in the future. Don’t let it bother you.”</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Valium replaced the Xanex. Blood loss from colitis caused Doc to perform a colonoscopy during my next stay from March 29 to April 5, 1994. The acute blood loss from my colon caused me to become anemic. Discharge papers read colitis, depression, diabetes mellitus—insulin dependent, hyperplastic colon polyp.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">On July 17, pain initiates around my esophagus. The continuous stress from pain, causes my hand to shake as I grab a spoon. I can’t eat. Tears form slowly. Do you give up and go to the hospital or do you continue to battle? The tears get larger and increase in number as I rub my eyes and wail.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I make the call. “Doc, I can’t take it anymore.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He asked, “Can’t take what?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Do you need to come to the hospital? I ask you because you’ve had so much experience; you’re the one who needs to decide. Do you need pain management in the hospital?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “Yes. I’m a mental and physical wreck.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Come on in to admissions. I will write orders and send them over.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After admission, a pain shot put me to rest. By the second day, the call for more pain medicine was extended to five or six hours. I catch myself laughing again, improvement.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The insurance company would only approve two nights in the hospital. Doc tried to get more but their doctor refused. After living with daily pain for months, you’re told to go home after two nights of rest. Your treatment is ended, not by Doc, but by the insurance company. Their doctor suggested that Doc send me home with a narcotic patch instead of hospitalization next time.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was grateful for the time stayed. Demerol allowed for sleep of more than four hours at a time; breaking the pain cycle. The more you hurt, the more pain medicine you take. The more medicine you take; the more tolerant you become. This tolerance makes the medicine less effective; causing you to take more pain medicine. This puts you in a viscous cycle.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 7/17/94 — 7/19/94</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Diagnosis: chronic pain syndrome, depression, diabetes mellitus—insulin dependent.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As a condition of my divorce, I tried to obtain ten year term life insurance. The insurance agent asked, “Do you take narcotics?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I smiled and said, “Sure, every day.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“You do understand this might prevent you from getting insurance.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“In my case the drugs are prescribed by my doctor for chronic pain relief.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In the end, the insurance companies would not bet on my life, not even for ten years.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My divorce was final on December 4, 1994. On December 6, I was admitted into the hospital for relief of intractable pain. Pain that worsened due to the combination of the constant stress of chronic pain and trying to work with little sleep and under the influence of pain medicine.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Diagnosis on 12/9/94: Diabetes mellitus — insulin dependent, esophagitis, gastritis, and neuralgia.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I filed for Disability benefits in May of 1995. On October 25, 1995, I received notice of denial of Disability benefits. On November 6, I cried for relief. Doc had become very frustrated trying to help me. As a gastroenterologist, there wasn’t much he could do except knock me out. I was admitted into the hospital on an emergency basis to get immediate relief by administering narcotics.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Before admission, we met at his office around five. “Doc, I am really worried about the near term and long term effects of living in this pain. I can’t keep doing this. I am living the life of a drug addict. I shoot up in the morning with the purest amphetamine, adrenaline. I come down off the speed with oral narcotics; and take Elavil to sleep. Pain and the body’s response, production of adrenaline, wakes me up in the middle of the night. I take more narcotics to get back asleep. My system is getting pounded everyday with stress hormones. To do this for another ten years is going to take a heavy toll. I’m afraid I’m going to start getting all sorts of stress related diseases after the age of fifty. Is there anyway that we can get the insurance company to pay for more than a couple of nights?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He shook his head and said, “We can try.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Is there anything like frequent flyer miles once you’ve spent over a half million dollars at the hospital?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Ah, no.” Rubbing his forehead, he said, “I’m not helping you. I can give you relief with Demerol; but I’m not helping you reduce the pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With face in hands and elbows on knees, I shook my head back and forth saying, “I need help. The other problem that I’m facing is a reconsideration of my Disability claim. They turned me down on the claim I made in May. My insurance company is going to drop me as soon as they can. It’s critical that I get Disability benefits because I can’t work. I stay up all night from the pain. I try to work under the influence of pain medicine. Doc asked, “What reason was given for denying your claim?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Oh, they said that my illness is not severe enough to prevent me from working.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Did you include depression as contributing to your not being able to work?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I filed due to chronic pain and depression.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Have you had suicidal thoughts?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “Doc they come in and go out, when I get really tired and worn down from fighting the pain. I don’t dwell on it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“But, you do have suicidal thoughts?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yes. I have a lot of fight in me, Doc.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Let’s get you in the hospital and give you 75/25 Demerol/Phenergan through IV push. I will call a new doctor on our staff that has taken a particular interest in pain management. He is a neurologist. His name is Neuro Doc. He will be by to see you.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Exhaling I said, “Alright. I need the rest.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc asked, “How much weight have you lost?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Oh, I’ve lost nine or ten pounds.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc put me at ease when he said, “I am going to admit you as an emergency admit. I’ll call in the orders for pain medication.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I made my way through admissions on autopilot. When I entered my room, a man was wailing and oozing fluid from his throat. The pump on the breather kept a rhythmic pace; but his trachea tube had become dislodged. As I stepped back from the room’s door, his sister arrived to see him in the midst of confusion.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Looking to the nearest nurse, I said, “I think you need to see about the patient in this room.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Nurses moved quickly once they became aware of this bizarre scene.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I had backed away from the room when a nurse leaned over the counter toward me and asked, “Would you like to move to another room?” I answered, “He’s in pretty bad shape. I think you need to put him in a single room. I’m nauseated; so I don’t really want to go back in there.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I rubbed my forehead and thought, “just another day at the hospital”. The sound of the breathing machine alone would have been difficult to sleep with. Of course, the hospital is not a place to get sleep. Too many nurses make sure you’re awakened at least once every three or four hours for some type of care or monitoring.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After moving, a nurse walked in and said, “Hello, I’m here to place your IV.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I should warn you that I’m a hard stick.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She stroked my arm looking for a vein. “Well, let’s see what we’ve got to work with here.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It took a couple of stabs, but it was in. Now if only I could get a shot. It was night when Doc came by. “I see they put your IV in.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I responded, “Yea. No medicine yet.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc’s head snapped back when he said, “What! Give me a break.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “Get me one too while you’re at it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He spoke firmly to the nurse and said, “Dr. Scherer has not received his pain medicine.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse replied, “He hasn’t ask for it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With a look of disbelief Doc said, “He was admitted for abdominal pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“We’ve been swamped with new admissions.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As Doc sat down, he said, “She’s fixing it.” He began to go through the checklists that document the stay. “I know we’ve done this a million times; but it’s something I have to do.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse came in with the shot and pushed it fast. The Phenergan burned the blood vessel as it entered. “Man that hurts.” Looking at Doc with eyes bulging out, I said, “That was a little fast for an IV push. I can vouch for the nurse. When I came in, there were three new files for admits on the front desk. The nurse that gave me the shot was supposed to leave at the three p.m. shift change.” After Doc left, I closed my eyes and drifted into sleep.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was hoping that the insurance company would give me at least three days. The next day Doc came by with good news.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said, “I was able to get a week. I told the insurance case worker about your case.” She said, “That’s a really complex case. Take a week and call back if you need more time.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With relief I said, “Great. I hope you got her name for the next time.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said, “I did. I told her that I have to explain this case to a different case worker every time I call.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Let’s hope we get her next time.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Neuro Doc will be coming by to see you this afternoon. I have to attend a meeting tonight; so, I won’t be back tonight.” He squeezed my ankle and said, “Take care Bill.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Neuro Doc came by after lunch. I liked his demeanor and his positive presence. The No Pain button on his coat brought a smile as we shook hands. After a thorough physical, we discussed the major events in my disease history.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“We have been getting good results using high blood pressure medicines to reduce pain. We should try Catapres. It reduces the number of nerve signals sent to the brain. We use Talwin to intercept the signals that are generated. The pain is reduced by slowing generation and prevention of signal reception.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He asked, “Do you use hypnosis and biofeedback?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yes. I was trained in 1986 when the pancreatitis went chronic. I do pretty well, if I can get six to eight hours of sleep. What puts me into the hospital is when I begin to sleep in three to four hour sessions with no deep sleep. You do that for a week and a half; and you cry uncle.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He shook my hand and said, “Hopefully the Catapres will help. I’ll continue the 75/25 Demerol/Phenergan for now. I’ll be checking on you in the morning to see how the night went.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With gratefulness I said, “Thanks.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After a couple of days, the boss of the insurance caseworker called. He was a doctor. Doc told him that both he and Neuro Doc recommended that I stay the rest of the week. He got the time.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">On day six, Neuro Doc ordered to DC (discontinue) the Demerol. When he came by we discussed the strategy of having me spend the night in the hospital with only oral Talwin. I told him that “I think it is a poor use of a hospital stay. I can take Talwin at home. I can’t take Demerol at home.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">At two thousand dollars a day, I want relief. “Why don’t you let me get as much relief as possible while I’m in the hospital?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With wisdom he said, “I need to know if you can go all night without the Demerol.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As he walked out of the room he turned and said, “Can I talk with you about any benefit you received from the surgery done to sever the pancreas nerves that were on the back of the lungs?<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “Sure.” He sat down as I began to tell him what I had experienced after the procedure. I told him, “I did get a reduction in the nausea.” He said, “That’s good. Typically the reduction in nausea comes along with a drastic reduction in vomiting from the pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I benefited from the procedure. I haven’t vomited since I had the procedure.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 11/6/95 — 11/13/95<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Diagnosis: chronic pain syndrome, depression, diabetes mellitus — insulin dependent.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">On the morning of Thursday March 11, 1996, I woke up at seven o’clock. I called Neuro Doc. “Have you ever had a patient that stayed up for like three or four days from chronic pain? I have been awake since Monday. I was doing pretty well until last night. I have just hit my limit.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “You must be getting pretty brittle. Do you want to go to the hospital where you last stayed?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In response I said, “Yes primarily for Doc and Sugar Doc.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Go to the emergency room and I will write orders for you and call Doc. I will come by to see you; and talk with you about another procedure that we have achieved good results with.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked, “Can you describe what is done?</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “The pancreas nerves collect above the rim of the pancreas in a nerve node. Because you no longer have a pancreas, we can consider killing the nerves at the node where they are brought together. They are only transmitting pain signals at the present time. As a first step we would inject novocaine into the nerve node; then we can monitor any reduction in pain obtained by the procedure. If your pain is significantly reduced, we can consider injecting alcohol into the node to kill the nerves and achieve a permanent reduction in your pain by eliminating the transmission of the nerve signals from the pancreas to the brain.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It’s strange. The crying always happens after I have given in; realizing that I can’t live without extraordinary care.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As I walked toward the emergency entrance, a security guard quickly jumped to his feet and asked if he could help. I responded, “I am being admitted.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I sat down in the admissions office to get processed. Cards and signatures to guard against liability. I rocked back in the chair and closed my eyes, squeezing tears to the sides of my face.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The clerk asked, “Why are you crying?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I have been awake since seven o’clock Monday morning in pain and I have reached my mental and physical limit.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said, “You are in pain?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Talk about being lost in the ozone.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">They were nice enough to give me a private room to wait for Doc. By the time I heard Doc coming, I had gotten most of the crying out of my system. “Hi, Bill. It looks like we need to take care of you again. Did you call Neuro Doc?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yes, he told me to come here and be put in observation with pain relief to see if further hospitalization would be needed.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I see. Okay, well, let me call him and see what he wants to do.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I could overhear the conversation, as Doc brought him up to date. “I think we should take a look too.” Doc’s shoes shuffle to me. “We are going to put you in observation. Neuro Doc will call in orders and be by later today. Okay?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I began to cry when I said, “I only call when I’m crying and shaking.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With a firm grasp of my arm and that big smile he said “We’re here for you.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I smiled and said “I was doing pretty well until last night. I just crossed the line this morning.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After the transfer to observation, I began the one hour routine. From the time that you get to the floor until you can even begin to be eligible for medicine is a little less than a hour of forms, exams, monitoring, and placement of the IV for pushing Demerol/Phenergan. My new head doctor showed up at about forty five minutes into the routine. He had been brought in to handle depression. Surprisingly he now shared an office with the psychiatrist that help me through my divorce. I liked him from the start. “What does Doc normally give you for pain?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“75/25 Demerol/Phenergan.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He wondered “Have you ever taken Thorazine?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I told him the story of having the hiccoughs after pancreas surgery. “Well, I’ve been here for two hours and I haven’t had any pain medicine; so fire both barrels. If I get to sleep, I might sleep forever.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I noticed Doc had ordered only Talwin by mouth.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said “He’s not going to do anything about pain medicine.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Why?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“He’s a gastroenterologist. I don’t have a pancreas. So, except for the colitis there’s not much for him to treat. He became frustrated because he wasn’t helping me by just relieving the pain. He wants you guys to handle the pain meds.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He said “Let me see if Neuro Doc ordered anything.” He returned quickly. “I’m going to go ahead and give you some Demerol until Neuro Doc and I have a chance to talk.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After the Demerol and dextrose disappeared in the IV tube, I laid back and closed my eyes to feel all of the narcotic .... peace ... and “Mr. Scherer, are you going to be able to eat lunch? It’s turkey and dressing.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yea, I’ll try.” I got about halfway through it when I began to sweat. I’ll rely on the dextrose drip. It’s easier.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I awoke to Neuro Doc coming into the room. His face appeared distorted through eyes that changed the normal view to kaleidoscope. I rubbed my eyes for the first few minutes of discussion trying to clear up the picture.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I understand that you have been given Demerol and Phenergan through your IV.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said yea 75/25, as my head bobbled back and forth.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He continued “Were you able to eat?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I ate about half of it. Then I started sweating; so, I quit.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As he left the room, I fell into a daze. I could hear Doc discussing my treatment with my doctors. I couldn’t make sense of the conversation or anything else. Doc came into the room.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I asked “What do you think Doc?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I don’t like seeing you like this.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Oh, hey believe me. I don’t like being like this.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I think you have had so much pain for so long that you did like you said, you crossed the line. We’re going to move you to the diabetic floor sometime tonight. Get some rest Bill. I’ll see you tomorrow. Neuro Doc prescribed a continuous drip of Dilaudid overnight.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Thanks.” We shook hands.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The night before being discharged, my new head doctor came by and asked what my status was. “Neuro Doc DCed the Demerol; so there is no reason for me to be here.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Do you think he should not have DCed the Demerol?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I think I should get the most relief possible while I’m here. He wants to be sure that I can get by without the Demerol to avoid a possible re-admit. I understand that. I know that can cause problems for everyone.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He ask “Do you want me to talk to Neuro Doc?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I replied “No. I have voiced my concerns. I’ll just ride it out tonight just like I do at home.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 3/14/96 — 3/19/96</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Diagnosis: neuralgia, depression, diabetes mellitus-insulin dependent. Instructed to take two Talwin NX tablets every four hours for seven days.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I received a fully favorable ruling from SSI Disability on May 30, 1996. On September 11, my Disability claim was transferred to the payment center. Now it was only a matter of time to process and provide monetary benefits. I am grateful to have medical insurance.</p>
<p class="p6"><span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p7">On October 7, 1996, I was admitted into the hospital’s emergency room for chronic pain relief. Neuro Doc was to write orders for pain medicine; however, there were no orders for the emergency room doctors. After a hour and twenty minutes, I reach the floor with IV in place. Patiently I went through the routine of checking in.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">When I asked for pain medicine, the nurse said, “We’ve ordered it from the pharmacy.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Ordered what?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She said “Your pain medicine. He has ordered Dilaudid by IV pump.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After a hour on the floor, the needle comes. The pump provided a slow drip of medicine while I slept. It brought me down with softness. Dilaudid provides a much deeper relaxation than Demerol; my outlook is pleasant. However, Demerol is the medicine used to control my pain during the fifteen months of hospitalization since 1982. It is that experience that gives you the mental fortitude to overcome the pain. Memory of all that pain allows you to see the current bout as one of many pain cycles that has been and will be broken. I must persevere.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In the afternoon, my sugar level got to forty five. I was sweating and shaking. Finally, I got enough orange juice in me to bring my blood glucose to a normal level.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Nurses removed the pain medicine pump around noon of the second day. That afternoon my sugar got too low. My nurse pleaded with me. “Mr. Scherer stay with me okay. Keep breathing steadily; try to relax.” Another nurse asked “What’s his sugar level?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I’ll have it in a few seconds. He’s at thirty five.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Let’s give him some more orange juice.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I think you are going to have to give me a D 50 (a viscous liquid containing a high concentration of dextrose)”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She responded quickly. “That’s why I’m trying to get the head nurse in here. I don’t have any orders for it.” Tears burst out and streamed in separate paths down my face.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse said “Mr. Scherer why are you crying?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I replied “I’m tired of hurting.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She said “What’s wrong?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said “It’s accumulative; okay. I get severe depression when I’ve been in pain for a long time.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Later in the day, another glucose meter reading indicated that my sugar level was low again. After another round of orange juice, I came out of it. I cried for a few more minutes after all the nurses left my room. After a hour or so, I asked for pain medicine. The nurse returned to say that only Talwin by mouth was ordered. I walked out to the nurse’s station saying “I take that at home for pain.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My nurse said “We will give your doctor a call.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Thanks.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Neuro Doc arrived shortly. “I understand you needed more pain medicine.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In frustration I said “I’m angry. You can’t go from Dilaudid by pump to one Talwin every four hours.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span>He said “I called earlier and they said you were doing okay.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“My sugar got to thirty five. I cried when that happened.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He left to order Dilaudid. After about a hour, a nurse came in with two shots.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He was followed by Doc, who said “Go ahead and give him the shot.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“We haven’t received his pain meds. These are for flushing his IV line.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said, “It’s been about an hour.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse said “Well, they want more time.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In frustration, I laid back down on the bed. I told the nurse, “I’m not going to argue with you.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said, “How’s it going?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“If my sugar had not dropped to thirty five and I had pain medicine, I would say we made progress. But today, I think we took two steps back. I went from Dilaudid by pump to one Talwin every four hours.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc looked at me with a puzzled look “Are the nurses not responding?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“There were no orders to respond to. They called Neuro Doc and he came by and ordered Dilaudid.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc replied, “I saw where Sugar Doc had written orders.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I had them call him when my sugar level got too low.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Let me see if I can expedite the pain meds,” Doc said as he left the room. After a few minutes, he returned with my nurse who ask if I wanted the pain medicine. Doc said “I’m not going to be able to see you tonight, because of a meeting. Take care Bill.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Okay; thanks Doc.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The orders called for taking a Talwin first. If relief is not achieved, I could get the Dilaudid. A solemn stare had the nurses answering their own question about trying the Talwin first.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Stay: 10/7/96 — 10/9/96</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Diagnosis: depression, neuralgia, diabetes — insulin dependent.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Pain causes strange events. After I got home on one Friday night, I was really tired from fighting the pain. I fell asleep soundly around ten p.m. I woke up to darkness. I fully expected it to be light when I awoke. After my vision cleared, I went out to get the paper. It was Saturday night, eleven o’clock. I don’t remember urinating; but you would have to think that I did at some point.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Thanksgiving with my parents came with a trip to the emergency room at Saint Edwards Hospital in Fort Smith, Arkansas. After being up all night and feeling really jittery, I began to have severe pain at a level not experienced since my pancreas was removed.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Mom held my arm; supporting me as we walked to the Emergency Room. Entering the hospital sent a wave of tears flowing from my eyes. At the admission desk, a nurse gave me a tissue to catch my tears. I was quickly sent to a private room, where Mom held me while I cried. I said, “I just get so tired of fighting.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With motherly love, Mom said, “Go ahead and cry.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Always the optimist, Mom pointed out that we must be thankful for doctors and medicines that can help. After a few more tears, I got a 100/25 Demerol/Phenergan shot. I went home with Percocet and slept from one thirty p.m. to six a.m. the next day. I took a Percocet; and went back to sleep until noon.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I received my first benefit from Social Security on January 3, 1997.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After Dr. King’s Day in Houston, Texas, Doc got back with me on a call. “What’s going on?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I did this same thing on Thanksgiving. I need to go to the emergency room.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Upon arriving at the emergency room, I was sent to have abdominal and chest x—rays as ordered by Doc. Afterward, I went to a room in the hospital.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was squirming in pain as Doc came into the room. I had a wrenching gut. Doc held my hand and said “Calm down. Calm down.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said with tears on eyes, “I’m not exciting myself.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Calm down.” I stared at Doc, as he began to smile and reassure me with a grasp of my foot. I then smiled in return. “We’re getting your pain medicine right now. She’s fixing it Bill.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">A nurse said “Here you go baby. I need to draw blood samples. As soon as I knock that out, I can give you a shot.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After returning from x—ray, Doc said “Chest and abdominal x—rays were normal.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I said “We’ve got Thanksgiving two.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Tell me what’s going on Bill.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“This is what happened in Arkansas.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“What happened?” Doc asked. I drifted for a few seconds.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">At six inches away from my nose, Doc’s big brown eyes looked right into my eyes. “Where is it hurting?”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“The usual spots, under my breast bone and all the way to the back.” I bared one side for the shot. The lights were lowered while I waited for a transporter. A couple of hours later, after moving to the floor, Neuro Doc arrived to see me stretched out on the end of the bed.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“What’s going on?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse responded, “Oh, he had projectile vomiting. He’s been one sick puppy.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Neuro Doc laid on the Dilaudid by pump that provided a constant drip. My intestines were in spasm, severe enough to obstruct the flow. This caused the vomiting even though I had not eaten since morning. Because the pain continued, a CAT scan was done to look for kidney stones or cysts. I was on my final cocktail when an AIDS patient was wheeled into the room. His face hung on his bones. After a few minutes, I diagnosed him as manic. He was talking nonstop to everyone. “This is my fourth rectal surgery. I won the contest on the floor for the most operations. Will you shake my hand?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I did and stared. He said “I had to spend some time in prison for molesting a nine year old boy. I just couldn’t stop myself. He was so gorgeous.” He was still rambling when I got the call for the scan to begin. The CAT scan was normal. One of three smear tests showed blood in feces. Colitis and the chronic pain combined to put me in the hospital for seven days. I was discharged Tuesday February 4, 1997.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After a few days, pain kept me up all night. With no sleep, I called Doc: “I need to get relief.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">With frustration he asked, “What do you mean relief Bill?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I have been awake for about thirty two hours and I can’t handle the level of pain.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc said “You mean back in the hospital?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Either that or get Neuro Doc to give me some home remedy.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc responded “Your insurance company is already reluctant to approve hospital stays. If we keep using the hospital, they are ..”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Finishing his sentence I said “Find some way to drop me?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc answered “No. I think we need to be careful about our use of the hospital. Let me talk to Neuro Doc and I will call you back.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Hello Bill, this is Doc. Neuro Doc will be giving you a call very soon; so don’t leave your house. It won’t be very long. I ask him to work with you to try to make it at home.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Okay. The Houston Rockets are on TV. I can watch the game while preparing for lights out.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Laughing he said, “Okay, take care Bill.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Hi, this is Neuro Doc. Doc tells me that you have insomnia and need pain control.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Yes. I’ve reached my breaking point, which wasn’t hard to do, given that I was hospitalized a few days ago.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Let me call in some Risperdal and a sleeping medicine. Give me your pharmacy number.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">He only gave me three sleep bombs. I slept eight hours on the first pill. Two additional nights of sleep were guaranteed. The Risperdal allowed for separation of the mental side from the actual physical pain. Separating the two is very difficult. If successful, you can realize that the pain isn’t any worse than it has been in previous times. The medicine helps you regain the mental strength necessary to overcome the bout of pain.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc46"></a>In Summary</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Since moving to Denver, Colorado from Houston, Texas to live near my son in 2013, I have been taking 12 hour time release morphine sulfate (MS Contin); taking no more than two per day. In addition to morphine, I have also taken no more than one tablet at a time of Hydrocodone-Acetaminophen (NORCO) for breakthrough pain; not to exceed three tablets per day. Using NORCO in combination with morphine sulfate, I have been able to avoid going to the hospital emergency room for an injection of a strong pain medicine. Although an injection of a strong narcotic brings quick relief, it only lasts from four to six hours as compared to twelve hours from the oral extended release morphine sulfate. The hospital is not an option for me now. Every treatment, surgery and procedure available has been performed.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I have HMO Medicare advantage medical insurance. Once I was able to establish my network of doctors, it has served me well. I am very grateful to live in a country that has Disability with medical insurance. Not working with a Ph.D. in civil engineering has been difficult to accept; but it is a fact of life for me. A life that is lived not endured.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><b></b><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Current Medicines Related to Sub-total Pancreatectomy and Chronic Pain:</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>For Pain Management:</i></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8"><i>Morphine Sulfate 30 mg tablet ER 2 per day</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Hydrocodone-Acetaminophen 7.5-325 3 per day as needed for breakthrough pain</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Amitriptyline HCL 50 mg 3 tablets at bedtime</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Venlafaxine HCL ER 75 mg capsules 2 per day</i></li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>For Diabetes:</i></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8"><i>Tresiba Insulin 18 units per day</i></li>
  <li class="li8"><i>Humalog Insulin sliding scale</i></li>
</ul>
<p class="p6"><i></i><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>For Digestion:</i></p>
<ul class="ul1">
  <li class="li8"><i>CREON capsules 12000 units Lipase, 38000 Protease, 60000 Amylase 2 to 3 per meal or snack</i></li>
</ul>
</body>
</html>
