<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <title></title>
  <meta name="Generator" content="Cocoa HTML Writer" />
  <meta name="CocoaVersion" content="1404.47" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet3.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<p class="p1"><span class="s1"></span><br /></p>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%"><b><a id="doc7"></a>CHAPTER 2</b></h2>
<h2 style="margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-align: center; text-indent: 0.0px; font-size: 123%; min-height: 19.0px"><br /></h2>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc8"></a>Under the Knife</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">I don’t recall much about the week I spent in a small room in the intensive care unit. The mind purges your memory, to free you from the painful impression left. During the surgery, I lost a gallbladder and had the pancreatic ducts opened after scar tissue was removed. The scar tissue had caused the pancreas to become hard and fibrotic; beginning the slow process of dying.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was single at the time; so my parents and the few friends that I had met were my only visitors. I do remember the green look on one friend’s face when he saw all the tubes I had protruding from my body, a nasogastric tube (NG) from my nose, two tubes draining fluids from the body cavity, and a bile drain from my midsection. These drain to a collection jar that is hopefully cleaned daily.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My tolerance for Demerol was very low. I had only been administered Demerol twice in my life. It soon became the lifeline to normalcy. Severe pain is a state well beyond normal, under any sane scale. The medicine is given to reduce the stress and trauma. Without it, pain drives you into shock. Administration is a welcomed sight and feeling. I passed in and out of narcotic dreams during the week, with only one unusual occurrence, hiccoughs. When you have stitches extending from your breastbone to below the navel with numerous internal stitches, hiccoughs are serious. Arrival of each hiccough was broadcast in cries of pain. I watched as my nurse quickly prepared a special cocktail. Fourteen hours after a large dose of Thorazine, I woke up without the hiccoughs.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">After one week, I was transported to a single room. Cutter felt that I needed complete rest, which doesn’t include roommates. As he wrote the orders, he rested the clipboard on my stomach. He must have felt that it was a good sign if the patient didn’t yelp. After arrival on the floor, an attractive doctor poked her head around the corner of the door and asked if she could talk to me for a moment. This woman could do whatever she felt like doing as far as I was concerned. She explained that she had observed my surgery along with a group of visitors because it was a rare procedure; being published only six months ago.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I couldn’t understand what in the world could have happened to put a man as young as you into four and a half hours of surgery. I know now. It’s been rough so far hasn’t it.”<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I answered with a yes, which led to a short but thoughtful few moments of conversation.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc9"></a>The Alcoholic</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">A patient next door had come to Houston from New Mexico to be treated by my doctors. A cyst on his pancreas had developed from his alcoholism; and surgery was required. Alcohol is a known toxin to the pancreas. He had been through it. He was wound so tight from coming off narcotics and being dry that he seemed to be appearing in a three dimensional movie when he would come in and give every one a pep talk about battling the evil that he and I shared. The Demerol may have had something to do with my perception.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The particular evil my mother was most interested in was his alcoholism. She asked her question by suggesting an answer to how much he drank each day, a pint. “Lady, I drank that much in the morning to get my hands to stop shaking so that I could make breakfast.” I imagined someone on a wagon train going west, killing pancreas pain with whiskey, only to have the pain increase with each gulp.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc10"></a>Pulling Tubes</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Although not widely known, having drainage tubes removed from one’s midsection is the closest a man can come to the miracle of birth. Cutter is especially skilled at diverting your attention to keep you relaxed; so, the tubes can be out and in the trash can before you can complete your first scream. A quick hot flash is followed by a deep gasp for air.</p>
</div>
<p class="p8"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc11"></a>Eating and Other Bodily Functions</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Within ten days, I could walk with minimal pain and my diet was being advanced to full liquids. One of the ways of confirming that your intestines are functioning is the observance of passing gas. Each day, I had the privilege of discussing this occurrence with the nurses, Mom, Dad, and Doc. This greatly affects your humility. Once solid food was introduced into my diet, it was a challenge to eat even a portion of a meal. My intestines were sore from handling during surgery; having to be coaxed into functioning again. A hamburger felt like a twelve course meal.</p>
</div>
<p class="p8"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc12"></a>Relapse</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">June 8, 1982; 13 days post surgery.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Up to now the recovery had been unremarkable; however on this day, pain returned along with nausea and vomiting. The pain is reported to be as intense as kidney stone passage or birth. Because I have not experienced either of these two bodily functions, I can only say it feels similar to what I imagine being shot with an arrow would feel like. Serum amylase, a pancreatic enzyme utilized to gauge the degree of severeness of the pancreatitis, was back up to three sixty five, from a low of one ninety seven on June 2<span class="s2">nd</span>. Demerol dosage was increased to the maximum allowable for my weight and combined with Phenergan for nausea control and to potentiate the pain killing effect.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Mom held my hand while telling me to stay calm and relax. I felt a sense of swelling under my breastbone; followed by piercing pain penetrating from the breastbone to the left of my spine. I grabbed for the call button and punched it as hard as I could, in hopes of the signal somehow getting there faster. It had been less than three hours since my last shot, a fact that Mom reminded me of. Relaxation was inconceivable. Instead, pain was met with grimace expressed from a fetal position. Muscles hardened with tension, as my face slid across the bed. Dad said, “Can’t they give him something for the pain?” I pushed the button again. Pain does not create patience. The syringe in the nurse’s hand brought hope. The shot was completed with pain of its own as the viscous Phenergan followed the Demerol in.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse explained, “He can have it after two and a half hours, if I think he needs it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I had no doubt about the need. I waited in anticipation of the numbness, to be devoid of sensation, floating. My nose tingled and itched; my eyes began to glaze as I stared out the window at a bright blue sky. Euphoria took hold for a few moments. Closing my eyes, I drifted into sleep; further away from painful reality.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I awoke to the gentle shaking of my shoulder. Mom softly told me that supper was here. I could tell by the smell of it that eating was not going to be easy. The food began to create new pain. As I reached for the call button, I told Mom I couldn’t eat. My buttock was visibly swollen like football hip pads and spotted with green and blue circular bruises that marked where shots entered. Mother’s concern about my inactivity was answered by Doc telling Mom and Dad that I needed total bed rest. They went home early that night, knowing that a decision had to be made about the course of treatment; but, it wouldn’t be made tonight.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The next day I could hear Doc’s shoes shuffling my way. He always wore a smile, even when his day began early in the morning with an emergency, as it did on this day. After greeting my parents, Doc began to lay out his plans. “As an option, I would like for you to consider another operation.” The tail of the pancreas would be removed and covered with a tube made from a piece of intestine. This new drainage tube would be attached to the tail of the pancreas and the duodenum. With the ducts swollen shut, digestion of the pancreas would continue as would the chance for rupture.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Should we give him more time?” Mom asked.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Uncovering the whites of his eyes, Doc wrinkled his forehead as he calmly responded, “I have given him time. We will continue conservative treatment until three doctors I know have a chance to look him over.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I answered his polite inquiry about my availability to meet with the doctors by stating that I could pretty much fit it in anytime between News at Noon and Gunsmoke. Everyone left the room that night feeling better than they did upon arrival, with the news that other opinions would be heard.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc13"></a>Confirmation</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">There was concern about rupturing of the pancreas. If it occurs, you die within fifteen minutes. The basic pancreatic fluid causes the electrolytes in your blood to precipitate. Loss of soluble electrolytes, required by the heart to keep beating causes an abrupt halt to life. Digestion of major organs also begins to occur.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">One of the doctors asked to review my case was James “Red” Duke, a big character. His arrival was anticipated by all the nurses. He is a local celebrity known nationally for his ability to treat trauma patients. Doc studied with Red at the University of Texas. It was Duke who was a partner in inventing hyperalimentation, the IV fluid that I was receiving via a pump. A pump is needed to force the viscous fluid into an artery under my clavicle. It provides the body with all of the trace metals, minerals, fats, carbohydrates, and sugars needed to survive. Starvation was always a concern with pancreas patients, since patients couldn’t eat during pancreatitis episodes.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Wearing a cowboy hat and boots, Dr. Duke sat down and said, “Well Skeeter, you’ve got yourself into quite a fix here haven’t you.” I began to laugh as I whole heartedly agreed with his assessment. I offered to get up to allow him to examine me. “I’m not going to poke around on you. I’m sure Doc was thorough in his physical examination. I will look at your films and tests. God didn’t intend for us to operate on the pancreas; that’s why it’s located in such a difficult place and position to get to.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In the end, each doctor recommended continuance of conservative treatment, no surgery.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc14"></a>Blues</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">My attention span was drastically reduced by the sickness and narcotics. Even focusing my eyes on television was difficult and reading was out of question. Hours were spent looking up at the ceiling, calculating the number of ceiling tiles and thinking about all of the combinations of tiles that could be assembled overhead.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Depression began to have a presence in my life. With stealth, you’re sought out when you become tired of the ride. A ride fueled by adrenaline. The low that follows is for now washed away by the Demerol. I began to lose my will to fight; opting for the needle more and more. I weighed one hundred and twenty five pounds at five foot, ten and one half inches tall. Nerves were shot. Drugs were used heavily. I began to receive the Demerol via the IV to preserve my rear and remove noise from the blood analytical work. Test results are altered by the damage of tissue that occurs when the syringe delivers the medicine into your body. Doc saw the symptoms of exhaustion and prescribed intravenous Valium.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">My call button brings another reprieve. Quickly and passionately it deadens you, to float without worry, without pain. I was a junkie; sitting in a sterile room being fed nutrients from a bag. My eyes were encircled by shades of blue, green, and purple. One night, a nurse came in with a 100/25 Demerol/Phenergan shot, pulled my subclavian IV tube to her; and shot it all at once directly into my heart. Beads of sweat were all that I could express.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I couldn’t sleep one night; and I asked the nurse, “May I have a sleep shot?”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc had approved a sleeping medicine when I confessed to using Demerol to just get some sleep one night. A nurse responded, “I can’t give you a sleep shot.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Why?” I asked with some puzzlement.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">She said, “It’s past three o’clock.<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">In response I said, “You mean I can’t have the sleeping medicine because I have stayed awake too long.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“You need to ask for it earlier.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The days past on until one day a lady appeared at the door. “Mr. Scherer? I’m with the accounting department and I need to inform you that your insurance company has informed us that they will not approve the difference in the cost for a private room as compared to a semi—private room.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Really!”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I opted to move immediately. I was able to get it approved since it was on Cutter’s order that I was sent to a private room.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc15"></a>Routines</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">There was one shining woman that performed the ultrasound examinations to determine if the pancreas head had shrunken since last week’s exam. She had blond hair; was trim. She always looked comfortable, at ease in performing her job. A few times my long stares that bread admiration if not lust would cause our eyes to connect. I had been in the hospital for a long time. All I could do was smile and ask how it looked this week.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“Better.” She quickly brought me down to reality by another squirt of cold jelly onto my abdomen.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">One daily routine was that my electronic signal to the mother board outside the room would bring a personalized greeting by someone dressed to operate calling me sugar pie, honey bunch, darling, or sweetheart. To my delight, sometimes these greetings would be worked up into a little number to the groove of an Aretha Franklin song. What it takes to delight is obviously altered by continuous mainlining of narcotics.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Asking and receiving a shot is an experience in itself. First of all, you can be assured the nurse responding to your call will not have the keys to the narcotic drawer. Secondly, at least two other nurses will say they don’t have the keys and will make a wild ass guess as to who might have them. Thirdly, there is a chance that your nurse is working on another patient; so, you will have to wait until she finishes. Fourthly, when you complain about waiting for your nurse to give you a shot, someone will offer to get it sooner than later. Lastly never ever expect to get a shot during report at shift changes.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was throwing up in a pail, when Doc arrived. “How much did he throw up?” Doc asked.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse replied, “A lot.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc went out of the room while I was getting my face washed by the nurse. Upon his return, Doc informed us of his desire to put the NG tube back in. It had been removed, once I was able to eat and keep down solid food. I was happy to stop eating, which was only causing pain. There was only one thing standing in the way, the NG tube. It was originally placed during surgery, which relieved me from the ordeal I was about to experience. The nurse instructed my parents to leave. Their eyes and mine focused on the three feet of tubing that she held in her hands. As badly as my parents felt for me, their feelings could not compare to how bad I felt. My palms started to sweat. What took place, could be easily adapted to serve as a sort of tribal torture to carry out when nobody felt like shrinking heads.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc held the tube and lubricated the end. As he began to place it in my nose, he said, “Here we go.” I kept swallowing until Doc said, “That’s it.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc16"></a>CAT Scan</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Hospitals have many ways to torture you in the name of science. One of the best around is the CAT scan, especially for pancreatitis patients because of the pain created by the four, twelve ounce glasses of lemonade you have to drink. This lemonade cocktail has a splash of iodine to top it off with that distinctive metallic, violently bitter blast of refreshment. The test can detect or rule out a cyst on the pancreas that could be the cause of the relapse. This is not a test that you volunteer for.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">To make matters worse, this scientific marvel and radiological torture chamber is located in the catacombs, as I affectionately called them. The temperature is kept at a level that will cause at least fifty percent of the patients’ teeth to chatter and also keep the temperature at an optimal level for the operation of the machines. The proper gear includes sweat pants, thick socks, heavy robe, and blanket.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I was on my third iodine cocktail, when I answered the technicians inquiry as to my status with the news that I was starting to get nauseated. He disappeared behind the door, in search of a nurse. Perspiration beaded on my forehead. Saliva began to collect in my mouth. Hot flashes raced through my head. I urged a passing nurse to tell them “We need to do this now.” I was able to walk to the table, but needed assistance to step up and position myself.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Iodine introduced through my IV caused me to become flustered. I panicked and started to roll back and forth. I muttered, “I’m beginning to see stars.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The nurse took charge and yelled, “He’s seeing stars. Let’s go.” She made final preparations. A cool rag was carefully wiped across my face as I stared into the nurse’s eyes. The nurse ask me to drink more dye to allow them to start taking pictures.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">As I finished it, I asked for a bed pan. Not knowing whether I was going to throw up or have diarrhea. With my rear propped up by a pan and my head over a pail, I began the thirty minute process of inching through the CAT scan. The need for pan and pail subsided. Finally, the procedure was over.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Mom pushed me back to the room, to save me the wait for a transporter. With my head resting in my hand, I could hardly wait to get in bed and get a shot, to put me out of this exhaustive misery. With assistance from the nurse, I rolled onto the bed and rested motionless. Mom nodded with concern when the nurse asked if I needed a shot. She found confirmation from my facial expression of helplessness and a nod. I listened closely to each step. I heard the sound of the keys being handled and,<span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7"><i>The keys making contact with the lock.</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>The tray being pulled open.</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Latex gloves snapped on.</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Ripping open the alcohol pad package.</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Closure of the tray.</i></p>
<p class="p7"><i>Footsteps to the room.</i></p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">I see the nurse’s shadow on the door. Alcohol drips from the IV port. I begin to slow my breathing. I drift. There is sleep.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc17"></a>Getting on with It</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">No evidence of a cyst was found; however, the head of the pancreas was enlarged. Within a week the pain was reduced significantly. My spirits were up, despite the toll taken on my body. With this good report, clamping of the NG tube was initiated gradually. On June 24, twenty eight days after surgery, pain returned.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">On June 28, another endoscopic procedure was performed. During the procedure, I woke up to see this black scope pressing into my throat. I saw Doc lunging to me saying, “Billy! Give him two more units.” The nurses held my head rigid and the scope in place until I passed out. After the procedure, Doc said, “I was afraid to give you more Valium, since I had already increased the dosage to overcome your tolerance.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The pancreatic openings were swollen shut. No one was more frustrated than Doc. After all his effort and expert application of his training, the pancreas had acted abnormally. The strain of round the clock pain caused muscles to tighten, mind to become fatigued, and soul to lose hope. You awake at unknown hours of darkness to press the button that brings the quick relief and the return of sleep. The normal schedule of day and night is replaced by sleep after shots and hours of staring at walls. Sleep was my only escape. One I used often. Conversations with Mom and Dad after getting pain medicine were the most enjoyable times because it was the one act that even approached normalcy.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">One day, I began to have pain whenever I swallowed. I didn’t make a big deal out of it; trying not to alarm Mom. After a while though, the pain began to get severe. Doc was at hand.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“I think you have esophagitis from the NG tube. It has rubbed a sore because it’s keeping the discharge end of the esophagus open.” Doc prescribed an antacid. I was so nauseated from the pain that I would gag when I tried to drink the antacid. Doc told the nurses to put it through my NG tubing. My bed was inclined by what felt like thirty degrees to keep the stomach acids from touching the ulcer on the esophagus.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc18"></a>Pancreas Pain Leaves</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">We watched fireworks from an empty room with a good view. There were plenty of empty rooms. No one volunteers for medical treatment on the fourth of July. Over the next two weeks, the pain level gradually reduced.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Oh, I still had some minor pain from the esophagitis; but it was nothing that could even begin to compare to the hell that I had been the center of. Although I was free from pancreatic pain, I still had an active NG tube. I wondered what difference it would make, when they began to clamp the tube. Food entering my stomach would cause my pancreas to produce digestive enzymes. The ducts would have to be open or pancreatitis would set in. On the twenty second, my bile drain was pulled. Now, the only tube left was the NG tube. It was time to start clamping.</p>
<p class="p6"><span class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></p>
<p class="p7">Clamping was unremarkable; however, my temperature reached one hundred degrees Fahrenheit on July 28. Blood and urine cultures were negative. After the subclavian IV was removed, the fever broke spontaneously. On July 30, Doc stopped by and ordered the removal of the NG tube. Yes! I have been relieved. I was free to walk and leave my room. Upon removal, an IV was to be started on my arm. I am what they call in the business, a hard stick. I found this out when the night nurse came to start the IV. He gave it two tries. Another nurse gave it two more. An RN gave it another four and said, “I am not going to stick this man for the ninth time. Get someone from anesthesiology to place it.” I was so happy to see the anesthesiologist from surgery. She felt of the top of my forearm. I asked her, “Do you want me to turn the light on.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">“No. I go by feel. It’s in.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">It was time to eat. This is a process that takes a minimum of five days when you’re recovering from pancreatitis. First there is clear liquids. The staple of this diet is, as Doc so fondly described, delicious Jello. Then comes that old time hospital favorite, chicken soup, part of the full liquid diet. Given my esophagitis, soft bland was as far as I would get for a while.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Today was the day, when if all went well, the IV in my arm would be removed. I was talking to a friend on the phone, when Doc came into the room. I opened my eyes as wide as I could, striving to make two perfect circles around my irises. Doc was smiling from ear to ear as he saw me pointing to my IV and giving the umpire out-a-there sign. Mom informed him that I had been talking about nothing else since they arrived this morning. I finished the telephone conversation when he went to tell the nurse to pull it out. When he walked back in, I didn’t need to tell him how I felt.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Doc walked over to the bed. Put his right hand on my shoulder and with his eyes shining said, “I am so happy for you. It’s been a long haul.” Then he shook my left hand with both of his. Tears began to pond on my eyes. There was nothing else that needed to be said.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc19"></a>Detail</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Mom had been washing my hair when it got so greasy that I couldn’t stand it anymore. I hadn’t had a shower in over sixty days. I have always taken hot showers. I let the water run over my head and neck, relaxing my muscles. This was the most pleasurable sensation I had felt in two months; unless you count the time I caught myself watching the hospital’s film on breast examination for women. I washed my hair three times. As I walked out of the shower, I lost my balance. I was far from physically fit.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">The first few walks outside, around the hospital, were spent listening to conversations among visitors, nurses, and doctors about events that actually took place away from the hospital. There is another world. One day I was sitting underneath the front drive of the hospital talking to a world war two veteran. He fought in the battle of the bulge; serving under Patton for a while. When he was butt deep in snow, he made a vow, that if he survived the war he was going to live somewhere where it never snows. He said, “I’ve been in Houston ever since.”</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<div>
<p class="p4"><b><i><a id="doc20"></a>Discharged</i></b></p>
<p class="p5">Tears were shed by all. I remember the car ride home with people talking on the side walk, car horns, trucks and the like. Once we cleared the city, Mom turned on a talk radio show. My view is that the hosts are rarely experts on anything. Being irritated by a radio show showed me how vulnerable I was emotionally.</p>
</div>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">On the first day out, I got a haircut. The girl washing my hair told me, “You have been taking a few too many drugs. I can tell by the stiffness of your hair.” To this I answered a resounding yes. I then explained they were legal drugs, much cleaner than you find on the street.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Jeff, my new roommate, had lived with my parents all summer. It was a lot to ask; however, their schedules fit, since he worked nights.</p>
<p class="p6"><br /></p>
<p class="p7">Pain free; August 10, 1982.</p>
</body>
</html>
